Eternal Limited Zomato ( or ) is an Indian online food ordering and delivery service owned by Eternal Limited . Created in by Deepinder Goyal and Pankaj Chaddah, it began as a restaurant aggregator , providing menu information, user reviews, and recommendations, and expanding to more than countries by . In , Zomato entered the food delivery market in India, which soon after became its core business. online food ordering Eternal Limited Deepinder Goyal restaurant aggregator As of , Zomato provided food delivery and table reservation options in more than Indian cities, with restaurant discovery services limited to the UAE following its exit from other international markets. Deepinder Goyal Bain & Company incorporated DC Foodiebay Online Services Private Limited With the introduction of .xxx domains in , Zomato also launched zomato.xxx , a site dedicated to food porn . Later in , Zomato introduced online ticketing for events on its website. online ticketing United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Philippines South Africa New Zealand In January , Zomato acquired Seattle-based restaurant discovery portal Urbanspoon , which led to the firm's entry into the United States and Australia . This U.S. expansion brought Zomato into direct competition with similar models such as Yelp and Foursquare. In June , Zomato announced the closure of Urbanspoon, with its traffic being redirected to Zomato. United States Entry into food delivery () In March , Zomato started its food delivery service in India, initially partnering with hyperlocal logistics companies such as Delhivery , Grab and Runnr to fulfill deliveries from restaurants that did not have their own delivery service. After acquiring Runnr in , it transitioned to delivering with its own fleet. In January , it launched table reservation feature on its application in India. table reservation In February , it introduced a paid membership program called Zomato Gold using which subscribers could get offers and discounts on dining and food delivery at Zomato's partner restaurants. In March , Zomato's UAE food delivery business was sold to Talabat . In January , Zomato acquired Uber Eats ' India business in an all-stock deal, giving Uber a .% stake in the company. Following the acquisition, Uber Eats discontinued its standalone operations in India, and its users and restaurant partners were migrated to Zomato's platform. According to industry estimates at the time, Uber Eats had a market share of less than %, while the acquisition was projected to increase Zomato's market share to %. Between April and June , owing to a rising demand for online grocery ordering amid the COVID- lockdown , Zomato delivered groceries and essentials under a service named Zomato Market in over Indian cities. In April , it introduced contactless dining at its partner restaurants. In May , Zomato started delivering alcohol in West Bengal , Jharkhand , and Odisha , before pulling out in April , citing poor unit economics and scalability. COVID- lockdown contactless dining West Bengal In November , Zomato announced that it would cease its services in all countries except India and the UAE. By early , it had completed the liquidation of more than overseas subsidiaries, which were primarily focused on restaurant discovery and reviews. In August , Zomato launched an inter-city food delivery service called Legends, which was stopped two years later. On June , an Indian security researcher hacked the Zomato website and gained access to information about . million users. Using the vulnerability, he was able to access the personal data of users such as telephone numbers, email addresses, and Instagram private photos using their Instagram access token. Zomato fixed the issue within hours of it becoming apparent. On May , a security blog called HackRead claimed that over million Zomato user records including emails and password hashes had been stolen due to a security breach. The company stated that no payment information or credit card details were stolen. The hacker removed the stolen user data from the dark web after Zomato agreed to start a bug bounty program . password hashes bug bounty program Started in by Ankit Kawatra, Feeding India is a nonprofit organisation focused on hunger relief initiatives in India. It operates volunteer-led meal distribution programs. Feeding India was acquired by Zomato in July . In May , Zomato claimed that Feeding India was serving over , meals every day under its Daily Feeding Program. nonprofit organisation Zomato Feeding India has organised benefit concerts in Mumbai to raise awareness about malnutrition in India ; it was headlined by Post Malone (in ) and Dua Lipa (in ). benefit concerts malnutrition in India Post Malone District is an app operated by Zomato, allowing users to discover and reserve tables at restaurants, and book tickets for movies and live events. It was launched in November , after Zomato's acquisition of Paytm 's entertainment and ticketing businessOrbgen Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (TicketNew) and Wasteland Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. (Insider)with approximately employees transitioning to Zomato. Android (operating system) software Android (operating system) software Companies based in Gurgaon Food- and drink-related organizations Food- and drink-related organizations Indian companies established in Indian companies established in Internet properties established in Internet properties established in IOS software Online food ordering Online retailers of India Retail companies established in Retail companies established in Transport companies established in Transport companies established in Universal Windows Platform apps Universal Windows Platform apps Websites about food and drink Articles with short description Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Short description matches Wikidata Use Indian English from January Use Indian English from January All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Use dmy dates from July