Apple (disambiguation)  Businesses and organisations Cupertino, California Silicon Valley Steve Wozniak Ronald Wayne microcomputers graphical user interface John Sculley iTunes Store Think different Apple Store John Ternus Apple's product lineup Apple Watch several in-house operating systems various software Apple Music largest company by market capitalization largest manufacturing company by revenue fourth-largest PC vendor largest vendor of tablet computers largest vendor of mobile phones valued at over $ trillion Apple has received criticism regarding its contractors ' labor conditions, its relationship with trade unions , its environmental practices , and its corporate ethics, including anti-competitive tactics , materials sourcing, and its acquisitions of smaller businesses . Nevertheless, the company has a large following and enjoys a high level of customer loyalty . Apple has consistently been ranked as one of the world's most valuable brands since the late 2000s. Apple has received criticism its contractors its relationship with trade unions its environmental practices anti-competitive tactics its acquisitions of smaller businesses a large following a high level of customer loyalty most valuable brands History of Apple Inc. : Founding and incorporation Steve Wozniak Los Altos, California Steve Wozniak Ronald Wayne partnership Volkswagen Bus Homebrew Computer Club motherboard mark of the beast Cupertino, California Mike Markkula The Apple II , also designed by Wozniak, was introduced on April , , at the first West Coast Computer Faire . It differed from its major rivals, the TRS- and Commodore PET , because of its character cell-based color graphics and open architecture . The Apple I and early Apple II models used ordinary audio cassette tapes as storage devices, which were superseded by the -inch floppy disk drive and interface called the Disk II in . West Coast Computer Faire Commodore PET open architecture audio cassette tapes floppy disk The Apple II was chosen to be the desktop platform for the first killer application of the business world: VisiCalc , a spreadsheet program released in . VisiCalc created a business market for the Apple II and gave home users an additional reason to buy an Apple II: compatibility with the office, but Apple II market share remained behind home computers made by competitors such as Atari , Commodore , and Tandy . killer application spreadsheet home computers initial public offering stock splits Ford Motor Company : Success with Macintosh List of Mac models Timeline of the Apple II family graphical user interface graphical user interface portable computer In , Apple launched the Macintosh, the first personal computer without a bundled programming language . Its debut was signified by " ", a -million television advertisement directed by Ridley Scott that aired during the third quarter of Super Bowl XVIII on January , . This was hailed as a watershed event for Apple's success and was called a "masterpiece" by CNN and one of the greatest TV advertisements of all time by TV Guide . programming language Ridley Scott Super Bowl XVIII John Sculley Jean-Louis Gassee boardroom coup Macintosh 512K LaserWriter laser printer desktop publishing Aldus Corporation desktop publishing profit margin power users profit margins Macintosh II IBM PC compatibles Christmas season Michael Spindler chief operating officer : Decline and restructuring Macintosh LC II Macintosh Classic Macintosh LC Macintosh IIsi The success of the lower-cost Macs and the PowerBook brought increasing revenue. For some time, Apple was doing very well, introducing fresh new products at increasing profits. The magazine MacAddict named the period between and as the "first golden age" of the Macintosh. The success of lower-cost consumer Macs, especially the LC, cannibalized higher-priced machines. To address this, management introduced several new brands, selling largely identical machines at different price points, for different markets: the high-end Quadra series, the mid-range Centris series, and the consumer-marketed Performa series. This led to significant consumer confusion among so many models. In , the Apple II series was discontinued. It was expensive to produce, and the company decided it was still absorbing sales from lower-cost Macintosh models. After the launch of the LC, Apple encouraged developers to create applications for Macintosh rather than Apple II, and authorized salespersons to redirect consumers from Apple II and toward Macintosh. The Apple IIe was discontinued in . digital cameras portable CD audio players Apple Interactive Television Box Apple Computer, Inc. v. Microsoft Corp. Michael Spindler Power Macintosh Under Spindler, Apple, IBM , and Motorola formed the AIM alliance in to create a new computing platform (the PowerPC Reference Platform or PReP), with IBM and Motorola hardware coupled with Apple software. The AIM alliance hoped that PReP's performance and Apple's software would leave the PC far behind and thus counter the dominance of Windows. That year, Apple introduced the Power Macintosh , the first of many computers with Motorola's PowerPC processor. AIM alliance PowerPC Reference Platform Power Macintosh In the wake of the alliance, Apple opened up to the idea of allowing Motorola and other companies to build Macintosh clones . Over the next two years, distinct Macintosh clone models were introduced. However, by , Apple executives were worried that the clones were cannibalizing sales of its own high-end computers, where profit margins were highest. Macintosh clones In , Spindler was replaced as CEO by Gil Amelio , who was hired for his reputation as a corporate rehabilitator. Amelio made big changes, including extensive layoffs and cost-cutting. classic Mac OS cooperative multitasking Jean-Louis Gassee : Return to profitability The NeXT acquisition was finalized on February , , and the board brought Jobs back to Apple as an advisor. On July , , Jobs staged a boardroom coup, which resulted in Amelio's resignation after overseeing a three-year record-low stock price and crippling financial losses. The board named Jobs as interim CEO and he immediately reviewed the product lineup. Jobs canceled % of models, ending , jobs and paring to the core of its computer offerings. United States v. Microsoft Corp. Stanford University Power Computing Apple Store website -inch diskette Jonathan Ive A little more than a year later on July , , Apple introduced the iBook consumer laptop. It culminated Jobs' strategy to produce only four products: refined versions of the Power Macintosh G3 desktop and PowerBook G3 laptop for professionals, and the iMac desktop and iBook laptop for consumers. Jobs said the small product line allowed for a greater focus on quality and innovation. Power Macintosh G3 PowerBook G3 Final Cut Pro DVD authoring DVD Studio Pro SoundJam MP Casady & Greene Apple Store music downloading In , the iTunes Store was introduced with music downloads for  a song and iPod integration. It quickly became the market leader in online music services, with over billion downloads by June , . Two years later, the iTunes Store was the world's largest music retailer. iTunes Store music downloads In , Apple purchased Nothing Real for its advanced digital compositing application Shake , and Emagic for the music productivity application Logic . The purchase of Emagic made Apple the first computer manufacturer to own a music software company. The acquisition was followed by the development of Apple's consumer-level GarageBand application. The release of iPhoto that year completed the iLife suite. Nothing Real compositing MacBook Pro Worldwide Developers Conference Mac would transition to Intel processors MacBook Pro Windows Vista Between early and , the price of Apple's stock increased more than tenfold, from around $ per share ( split-adjusted ) to over $. When Apple surpassed Dell's market cap in January , Jobs sent an email to Apple employees saying Dell's CEO Michael Dell should eat his words. Nine years prior, Dell had said that if he ran Apple he would "shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders". split-adjusted Michael Dell : Success with mobile devices first-generation iPhone MacWorld Expo During his keynote speech at the Macworld Expo on January , , Jobs announced the renaming of Apple Computer, Inc. to Apple Inc., because the company had broadened its focus from computers to consumer electronics. This event also saw the announcement of the iPhone and the Apple TV . The company sold , first-generation iPhones during the first hours of sales, and some industry commentators described the device as "a game changer for the industry". Macworld Expo first-generation iPhones iTunes Store digital rights management In July , Apple launched the App Store to sell third-party applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch . Within a month, the store sold million applications and registered an average daily revenue of $ million, with Jobs speculating in August that the App Store could become a billion-dollar business for Apple. By October , Apple was the third-largest mobile handset supplier in the world due to the popularity of the iPhone. iPod Classic Made for iPod leave of absence the recession video calling multitasking stainless steel multi-touch iPod Shuffle On August , , Jobs resigned his position as CEO of Apple. He was replaced by Cook and Jobs became Apple's chairman. Apple did not have a chairman at the time and instead had two co-lead directors, Andrea Jung and Arthur D. Levinson , who continued with those titles until Levinson replaced Jobs as chairman of the board in November after Jobs' death. Andrea Jung Arthur D. Levinson : Post-Jobs era, new devices On October , , Steve Jobs died, marking the end of an era for Apple. The next major product announcement by Apple was on January , , when Apple's Phil Schiller introduced iBooks Textbooks for iOS and iBooks Author for Mac OS X in New York City. Jobs stated in the biography Steve Jobs that he wanted to reinvent the textbook industry and education. Phil Schiller intelligent software assistant fourth-generation iPads Retina displays MacBook Pro intellectual property Jimmy Iovine Beats Electronics Beats Music First-generation Apple Watch Apple Watch fashion accessory activity trackers On June , , Fortune released the Fortune , its annual list of companies ranked on revenue generation. In the trailing fiscal year of , Apple was listed as the top tech company. It ranked third, overall, with billion in revenue. This represents a movement upward of two spots from the previous year's list. Fortune smart speaker Google Home Amazon Echo Apple Music European Union a drama series Jennifer Aniston Reese Witherspoon Amazing Stories Steven Spielberg Writers Guild of America Oprah Winfrey Sesame Workshop Peanuts Worldwide Apple Special Event Watch Series : Transition from Intel CPUs, legal compliance and settlements MacBook Air M1 Mac would transition to processors developed in-house In April , it was reported that Samsung Electro-Mechanics would be collaborating with Apple on its M2 chip instead of LG Innotek . Developer logs showed that at least nine Mac models with four different M2 chips were being tested. Samsung Electro-Mechanics The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple's effort to develop its own chips left it better prepared to deal with the semiconductor shortage that emerged during the COVID- pandemic , which led to increased profitability, with sales of M1-based Mac computers rising sharply in and . It also inspired other companies like Tesla , Amazon , and Meta Platforms to pursue a similar path. The Wall Street Journal COVID- pandemic Meta Platforms In April , Apple opened an online store that allowed anyone in the US to view repair manuals and order replacement parts for specific recent iPhones, although the difference in cost between this method and official repair is anticipated to be minimal. Apple Vision Pro On June , , the Apple Store in Towson, Maryland , became the first to unionize in the US, with the employees voting to join the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers . Towson, Maryland International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers On July , , Apple added Lockdown Mode to macOS and iOS , as a response to the earlier Pegasus revelations; the mode increases security protections for high-risk users against targeted zero-day malware. Apple launched a buy now, pay later service called 'Apple Pay Later' for its Apple Wallet users in March . The program allows its users to apply for loans between $ and $, to make online or in-app purchases and then repaying them through four installments spread over six weeks without any interest or fees. buy now, pay later Apple Wallet In November , Apple agreed to a $-million settlement in a US Department of Justice case that alleged Apple was discriminating against US citizens in hiring. Apple created jobs that were not listed online and that required a paper submission application, while advertising these jobs to foreign workers as part of recruitment for PERM . US Department of Justice In January , Apple announced compliance with the European Union's competition law, with major changes to the App Store and other services, effective on March . This enables iOS users in the -nation bloc to use alternative app stores, and alternative payment methods within apps. This adds a menu in Safari for downloading alternative browsers, such as Chrome or Firefox. In June , Apple introduced Apple Intelligence to incorporate on-device artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities. Apple Intelligence artificial intelligence In October , Apple introduced its Apple Intelligence suite, bringing generative AI features such as writing assistance, enhanced Siri capabilities, and improved photo tools to select iPhone, iPad, and Mac devices. On November , , Apple announced its acquisition of Pixelmator , a company known for its image editing applications for iPhone and Mac. Apple had previously showcased Pixelmator's apps during its product launches, including naming Pixelmator Pro its Mac App of the Year in for its innovative use of machine learning and AI. In the announcement, Pixelmator stated that there would be no significant changes to its existing apps following the acquisition. present: Domestic investment, AI development, and Tim Cook's retirement as CEO research and development Liquid Glass macOS Tahoe Competition in the AI space In December , Cook met with US House members to push back against the App Store Accountability Act which could require that Apple authenticates users' ages and possibly collect sensitive data on children. On January , , Apple announced a partnership with Google Gemini for AI-powered Siri. Google Gemini In January , Apple acquired Q.ai, an Israeli artificial intelligence startup specializing in imaging and machine learning technologies for audio processing. The financial terms were not disclosed, though media reports estimated the acquisition at nearly US$ billion; this is Apple's second-largest purchase to date. Following the deal, Q.ai's founders and approximately employees joined Apple. In February , US lawmakers requested that the United Kingdom government provide a briefing on its now-rescinded order for Apple to build a backdoor into its encrypted devices, expressing concerns about privacy and security implications of such access. On April , , Apple announced that Tim Cook will step down as CEO on September , , to be succeeded by John Ternus , the Senior Vice President of Hardware Engineering. Cook is slated to become Executive Chairman of the Board, while Arthur Levinson , the long-standing non-executive chairman, will transition to the role of Lead Independent Director. John Ternus Arthur Levinson List of Apple products Apple Watch Apple Vision Pro a cohesive ecosystem walled garden Cory Doctorow intellectual property anti-competitive practice Mac (computer) Mac, which is short for Macintosh, its official name until , is Apple's line of personal computers that use the company's proprietary macOS operating system. Personal computers were Apple's original business line, but as of the end of they account for only about eight percent of the company's revenue. There are six Mac computer families in production: iMac : Consumer all-in-one desktop computer, introduced in . Mac Mini : Consumer sub-desktop computer, introduced in . MacBook Pro : Professional notebook, introduced in . MacBook Pro MacBook Air : Consumer ultra-thin notebook, introduced in . MacBook Air Mac Studio : Professional small form-factor workstation, introduced in . MacBook Neo : Low-cost ultra-thin notebook, introduced in . MacBook Neo Apple silicon Final Cut Pro Studio Display Studio Display XDR Magic Mouse Magic Trackpad Magic Keyboard The iPhone is Apple's line of smartphones , which run the company's iOS operating system. The first iPhone was unveiled by Steve Jobs on January , . Since then, new iPhone models have been released every year. When it was introduced, its multi-touch screen was described as "revolutionary" and a "game-changer" for the mobile phone industry. The device has been credited with creating the app economy . smartphones first iPhone iPhone models multi-touch app economy iOS is one of the two major smartphone platforms in the world, alongside Android . The iPhone has generated large profits for the company, and is credited with helping to make Apple one of the world's most valuable publicly traded companies. As of the end of , the iPhone accounts for nearly half of the company's revenue. iPad Pro first-generation iPad As of September , Apple has sold more than million iPads, though sales peaked in . The iPad remains the most popular tablet computer by sales as of the second quarter of , and accounted for seven percent of the company's revenue as of the end of . Apple sells several iPad accessories , including the Apple Pencil , Smart Keyboard , Smart Keyboard Folio , Magic Keyboard , and several adapters. most popular tablet computer by sales iPad accessories Apple Pencil Smart Keyboard Smart Keyboard Folio Magic Keyboard AirPods Max Apple Watch Ultra Apple makes several other products that it categorizes as "Wearables, Home and Accessories". These products include the AirPods line of wireless headphones, Apple TV digital media players, Apple Watch smartwatches, Beats headphones, HomePod smart speakers, and the Vision Pro mixed reality headset. As of the end of , this broad line of products comprises about ten percent of the company's revenues. Apple Watch Apple Books Apple Fitness+ Apple Music Apple News+ iTunes Store Marketing of Apple Inc. Sir Isaac Newton Alan Turing his method of suicide On August , , Apple officially dropped the rainbow scheme and began to use single-color logos nearly identical in shape to the previous rainbow incarnation. An Aqua -themed version of the logo was used from until , and a glass-themed version was used from until . Apple evangelists were actively engaged by the company at one time, but this was after the phenomenon had already been firmly established. Apple evangelist Guy Kawasaki has called the brand fanaticism "something that was stumbled upon", while Jonathan Ive claimed in that "people have an incredibly personal relationship" with Apple's products. Apple evangelists Guy Kawasaki Omnicom Group Boston Consulting Group World Intellectual Property Organization Madrid System Apple Inc. advertising Think different Super Bowl advertisement were criticized Apple Store Apple Fifth Avenue Regent Street store-within-a-store Ron Johnson On March , , France fined Apple . billion for colluding with two wholesalers to stifle competition and keep prices high by impeding independent resellers. The arrangement created aligned prices for Apple products such as iPads and personal computers for about half the French retail market. According to the French regulators, the abuses occurred between and but were first discovered after a complaint by an independent reseller, eBizcuss, in . Coalition for App Fairness clandestine surveillance deep learning However, Apple has aided law enforcement in criminal investigations by providing iCloud backups of users' devices, and the company's commitment to privacy has been questioned by its efforts to promote biometric authentication technology in its iPhone models starting with the iPhone 5s , which do not have the same level of constitutional privacy as a passcode in the United States. biometric authentication iPhone models constitutional targeted advertising child sexual abuse material Electronic Frontier Foundation Ireland's Data Protection Commission launched a privacy investigation to examine whether Apple complied with the EU's GDPR law following an investigation into how the company processes personal data with targeted ads on its platform. Data Protection Commission Brian Krebs iPhone Pro ultra-wideband Guardian Firewall Bloomberg News IP addresses forged signatures List of mergers and acquisitions by Apple Braeburn Capital Criticism of Apple Inc. The key trends for Apple are, as of each financial year ending September : As of April , , the management of Apple includes: Tim Cook ( chief executive officer ) chief executive officer Sabih Khan ( chief operating officer ) chief operating officer Johny Srouji (chief hardware officer) Johny Srouji Kevan Parekh (senior vice president and chief financial officer ) Kevan Parekh chief financial officer Katherine Adams (senior vice president  Government Affairs) Eddy Cue (senior vice president  Services and Health) Craig Federighi (senior vice president  Software Engineering) Craig Federighi Greg Joswiak (senior vice president  Worldwide Marketing) Greg Joswiak Jennifer Newstead (senior vice president and General Counsel) Jennifer Newstead Deirdre O'Brien (senior vice president  Retail + People) Deirdre O'Brien John Ternus (senior vice president  Hardware Engineering) John Ternus As of January , , the board of directors of Apple includes: board of directors Arthur D. Levinson Tim Cook (executive director and CEO) Wanda Austin Alex Gorsky Andrea Jung Monica Lozano Ronald Sugar Susan Wagner Michael Scott Mike Markkula John Sculley Michael Spindler Mike Markkula Mike Markkula John Sculley Mike Markkula As of December , , the largest shareholders of Apple were: The Vanguard Group (,,, shares, .%) The Vanguard Group BlackRock (,,, shares, .%) State Street Corporation (,, shares, .%) State Street Corporation Geode Capital Management (,, shares, .%) Geode Capital Management Fidelity Investments (,, shares, .%) Fidelity Investments Morgan Stanley (,, shares, .%) Morgan Stanley Berkshire Hathaway (,, shares, .%) Berkshire Hathaway JPMorgan Chase (,, shares, .%) JPMorgan Chase T. Rowe Price (,, shares, .%) T. Rowe Price Norges Bank (,, shares, .%) Norges Bank Steve Wozniak Andy Hertzfeld Apple User Group Connection corporate culture Fortune Star Trek conventions As the company has grown and been led by a series of differently opinionated chief executives, some media have suggested that it has lost some of its original character. Nonetheless, it has maintained a reputation for fostering individuality and excellence that reliably attracts talented workers, particularly after Jobs returned. Numerous Apple employees have stated that projects without Jobs' involvement often took longer than others. The Apple Fellows program awards employees for extraordinary technical or leadership contributions to personal computing . Recipients include Bill Atkinson , Steve Capps , Rod Holt , Alan Kay , Guy Kawasaki , Al Alcorn , Don Norman , Rich Page , Steve Wozniak , and Phil Schiller . personal computing Bill Atkinson Steve Capps Guy Kawasaki Steve Wozniak Phil Schiller Ron Johnson In , Apple had , full-time employees. This increased to , full-time employees the next year, a notable hiring decrease, largely due to its first revenue decline. Apple does not specify how many of its employees work in retail, though its SEC filing put the number at approximately half of its employee base. In September , Apple announced that it had over , full-time employees. corporate secrecy National Security Agency Federal Bureau of Investigation United States Secret Service Mark Gurman X "moonshot factory" Criticism of Apple Inc. Apple litigation United States v. Apple () AppleEU tax dispute Foxconn suicides Apple in China its supply chain right to repair human rights records On May , Apple settled for $ million a shareholder lawsuit after the lawsuit was filed by Peter Landsheft in US federal court in California in over delays in AI upgrades to Siri. Apple Campus Silicon Valley groundscraper circumference business park Infinite Loop green space In addition to Apple Park and the Apple Campus, Apple occupies an additional thirty office buildings scattered throughout the city of Cupertino, including three buildings as prior headquarters: Stephens Creek Three from to , Bandley One from to , and Mariani One from to . In total, Apple occupies almost % of the available office space in the city. Apple's headquarters for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) are located in Cork in the south of Ireland , called the Hollyhill campus. The facility, which opened in , houses , people and was Apple's first location outside of the United States. Apple's international sales and distribution arms operate out of the campus in Cork. Apple silicon Litigation involving Apple Inc. Apple v. Samsung Apple v. Microsoft Motorola Mobility v. Apple Inc. Apple Corps v. Apple Computer shell companies patent trolls Most recently, in November , the United States International Trade Commission announced an investigation into allegations of patent infringement in regards to Apple's remote desktop technology; Aqua Connect, a company that builds remote desktop software, has claimed that Apple infringed on two of its patents. United States International Trade Commission Epic Games filed a lawsuit against Apple in August in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California , related to Apple's practices in the iOS App Store . United States District Court for the Northern District of California iOS App Store In January , Ericsson sued Apple over payment of royalty of 5G technology. On June , , the European Commission accused Apple of violating the Digital Markets Act by preventing "app developers from freely steering consumers to alternative channels for offers and content". In April , Apple was found guilty and fined  million ($ million) for violating the Digital Markets Act. European Commission Digital Markets Act In , Apple was one of the donors who funded the White House's East Wing demolition , and planned building of a ballroom . East Wing demolition List of mergers and acquisitions by Apple As of , Apple was the world's fourth-largest personal computer vendor , the largest vendor of tablet computers , and the largest vendor of mobile phones . It is a Big Tech company. fourth-largest personal computer vendor largest vendor of tablet computers largest vendor of mobile phones In its fiscal year ending in September , Apple reported a total of $ billion in annual revenuesa significant increase from its revenues of $ billionand nearly $ billion in cash reserves . On March , , Apple announced plans for a $.-per-share dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of , per approval by its board of directors. cash reserves The company's worldwide annual revenue in totaled $ billion. In May , Apple entered the top ten of the Fortune list of companies for the first time, rising places above its ranking to take the sixth position. As of , Apple has around US$ billion of cash and marketable securities, of which % is located outside the United States for tax purposes. Fortune Apple amassed % of all profits made by the eight largest worldwide smartphone manufacturers in quarter one of , according to a report by Canaccord Genuity . In the first quarter of , the company garnered % of all earnings. Canaccord Genuity On April , , The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple had cash reserves of $ billion, officially confirmed by Apple as specifically $. billion a few days later. The Wall Street Journal cash reserves As of August , , Apple was the largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization . On August , , Apple became the first publicly traded US company to reach a $ trillion market value, and, as of October , is valued at just over $ trillion. Apple was ranked No. on the Fortune rankings of the largest United States corporations by revenue . largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization Fortune largest United States corporations by revenue In July , Apple reported an % decline in Q3 profits compared to . Its revenue in the same period rose % year-on-year to $ billion, though this figure was also lower than in , where the increase was at %. The general downturn is reportedly caused by the slowing global economy and supply chain disruptions in China. That year, Apple was one of the largest corporate spenders on research and development worldwide, with R&D expenditure amounting to over $ billion. largest corporate spenders Netherlands British Virgin Islands The New York Times Double Irish with a Dutch sandwich British Conservative Party Charlie Elphicke corporate tax Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne the Coca-Cola Company Apple says that it is the single largest taxpayer in the US, with an effective tax rate of approximately of % as of Q2 FY . In an interview with the German newspaper FAZ in October , Tim Cook stated that Apple was the biggest taxpayer worldwide. effective tax rate a two-year investigation Double Irish tax arrangement European General Court Apple is a partner of Product Red , a fundraising campaign for AIDS charity. In November , Apple arranged for all App Store revenue in a two-week period to go to the fundraiser, generating more than US$ million, and in March , it released an iPhone with a red color finish. As of , Apple has donated over $ million to Product Red. Product Red American Red Cross Hurricane Sandy Hurricane Irma Hurricane Harvey Central Mexico earthquake Haiti earthquake Japan earthquake Typhoon Haiyan European migrant crisis World Wide Fund for Nature iTunes App Store COVID- pandemic institutional racism murder of George Floyd Environmental impact of Apple Inc. Apple Energy, LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Apple that sells solar energy . As of June , , Apple's solar farms in California and Nevada have been declared to provide . megawatts of solar generation capacity. Apple has received regulatory approval to construct a landfill gas energy plant in North Carolina to use the methane emissions to generate electricity. Apple's North Carolina data center is already powered entirely by renewable sources. solar energy landfill gas energy plant North Carolina methane emissions Climate Counts Following a Greenpeace protest, Apple released a statement on April , , committing to ending its use of coal and shifting to % renewable clean energy. By , Apple was using % renewable energy to power its data centers . Overall, % of the company's power came from clean renewable sources. % renewable energy data centers In May , Greenpeace evaluated the state of the Green Internet and commended Apple on its environmental practices saying, "Apple's commitment to renewable energy has helped set a new bar for the industry, illustrating in very concrete terms that a % renewable Internet is within its reach, and providing several models of intervention for other companies that want to build a sustainable Internet." renewable energy carbon offsets Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool desktop computer Lisa P. Jackson post-consumer glass production On July , , Apple announced its plan to become carbon neutral across its entire business, manufacturing supply chain, and product life cycle by . In the next years, Apple will try to lower emissions with a series of innovative actions, including: low carbon product design, expanding energy efficiency, renewable energy, process and material innovations, and carbon removal. carbon neutral United States Environmental Protection Agency Santa Clara, California Resource Conservation and Recovery Act activated carbon volatile organic compounds polyvinyl chloride brominated flame retardants cold cathode LED-backlit LCD MacBook Pro electrical usage climate and energy sustainability halogen-free In February , Apple issued a -billion green bond (climate bond), the first ever of its kind by a US tech company. The green bond proceeds are dedicated to the financing of environmental projects. Apple supply chain List of Apple Inc. suppliers As of , Apple used hardware components from different countries. outsourcing Made in the U.S.A. Compal Electronics BYD Electronic The Wall Street Journal iPhone models The company's manufacturing, procurement, and logistics enable it to execute massive product launches without having to maintain large, profit-sapping inventories. In , Apple's profit margins were percent, compared with between and percent for most other hardware companies. Cook's catchphrase to describe his focus on the company's operational arm is: "Nobody wants to buy sour milk." Apple Inc. and unions Apple Stores Zhengzhou Technology Park trade unions works councils United Kingdom United States Apple Together solidarity union labor disputes its suppliers and contractors Apple has been criticized for labor sourcing and conditions at the facilities of its contract manufacturers as well as mines. List of Apple Inc. media events List of Apple Inc. media events Outline of Apple Inc. Carlton, Jim (). Apple: The Inside Story of Untrigue, Egomania, and Business Blunders . New York: Random House. ISBN ---- . Apple: The Inside Story of Untrigue, Egomania, and Business Blunders ---- Hertzfeld, Andy (). Revolution in the Valley: The Insanely Great Story of How the Mac Was Made . O'Reilly Books. ISBN ---- . Hertzfeld, Andy Revolution in the Valley: The Insanely Great Story of How the Mac Was Made ---- Linzmayer, Owen (). Apple Confidential . . No Starch Press. ISBN ---- . ---- O'Grady, Jason D. (). Apple Inc . ABC-CLIO. ISBN ---- . ---- Swaine, Michael (). Fire in the Valley: The Birth and Death of the Personal Computer . Pragmatic Bookshelf. ISBN ---- . ---- Wozniak, Steve ; Smith, Gina (). iWoz: From Computer Geek to Cult Icon: How I Invented the Personal Computer, Co-Founded Apple, and Had Fun Doing It . W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN ---- . Wozniak, Steve Smith, Gina iWoz: From Computer Geek to Cult Icon: How I Invented the Personal Computer, Co-Founded Apple, and Had Fun Doing It ---- Amelio, Gil ; Simon, William L. (). On the Firing Line: My Days at Apple . New York: Harper Business. ISBN ---- . Amelio, Gil On the Firing Line: My Days at Apple ---- Carlton, Jim (). Apple: The Inside Story of Intrigue, Egomania and Business Blunders (Revised ed.). Random House Business Books. ISBN ---- . ---- Deutschman, Alan (). The Second Coming of Steve Jobs . Broadway Books. ISBN ---- . The Second Coming of Steve Jobs ---- Kunkel, Paul (). . Graphis Incorporated. ISBN ---- . ---- Lashinsky, Adam (). Inside Apple: How America's Most Admiredand SecretiveCompany Really Works . Grand Central. ISBN ---- . Inside Apple: How America's Most Admiredand SecretiveCompany Really Works ---- Levy, Steven () . Insanely Great: The Life and Times of Macintosh, the Computer That Changed Everything . New York: Penguin Books. ISBN ---- . Levy, Steven ---- Pogue, David (). Apple: The First Years (First hardcover ed.). New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN - . OCLC . Pogue, David Apple: The First Years - Polsson, Ken. "Chronology of Events in the History of Microcomputers" . Archived from the original on June , . "Chronology of Events in the History of Microcomputers" the original Price, Rob (). So Far: The First Ten Years of a Vision . Apple Computer. ISBN ---- . ---- Rose, Frank (). West of Eden: The End of Innocence at Apple Computer . Penguin Books. ISBN ---- . West of Eden: The End of Innocence at Apple Computer ---- Sculley, John ; Byrne, John A. () [October , ]. Odyssey: Pepsi to Apple ... A Journey of Adventure, Ideas and the Future . Diane Pub. Co. ISBN ---- . Sculley, John ---- Young, Jeffrey S. (). Steve Jobs: The Journey Is the Reward . Lynx Books. ISBN ---- . ---- Young, Jeffrey S.; Simon, William L. (). iCon Steve Jobs: The Greatest Second Act in the History of Business . John Wiley & Sons. ISBN ---- . iCon Steve Jobs: The Greatest Second Act in the History of Business ---- Business data for Apple Inc.: Google Reuters SEC filings Yahoo! SEC filings Apple Inc. companies grouped at OpenCorporates Apple Inc. companies OpenCorporates Apple Inc. on OpenSecrets , a website that tracks and publishes data on campaign finance and lobbying OpenSecrets britannica.com San Francisco Bay Area United States Companies in the Nasdaq- Companies listed on the Nasdaq establishments in California establishments in California 1980s initial public offerings American brands Companies based in Cupertino, California Companies based in Cupertino, California Companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Companies in the PRISM network Computer companies established in Computer companies established in Computer companies of the United States Computer companies of the United States Computer hardware companies Computer systems companies Display technology companies Electronics companies of the United States Electronics companies of the United States Headphones manufacturers Home computer hardware companies Home computer hardware companies Mobile phone manufacturers Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Networking hardware companies Portable audio player manufacturers Portable audio player manufacturers Retail companies of the United States Retail companies of the United States Software companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Software companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Software companies established in Software companies established in Technology companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Technology companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Technology companies established in Technology companies established in Technology companies of the United States Technology companies of the United States Companies in the Dow Jones Global Titans Companies in the Dow Jones Global Titans Audio software companies Virtual reality companies Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments Webarchive template wayback links Webarchive template wayback links All pages needing factual verification All pages needing factual verification Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from November Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from November CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Articles with short description Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Use American English from June Use American English from June All Wikipedia articles written in American English All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from May Infobox network service provider ASN same as Wikidata Infobox network service provider ASN same as Wikidata Articles containing potentially dated statements from September Articles containing potentially dated statements from September All articles containing potentially dated statements All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from October Articles containing potentially dated statements from October Articles containing potentially dated statements from September Articles containing potentially dated statements from September Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from September Articles containing potentially dated statements from September Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from January Articles containing potentially dated statements from January Articles containing potentially dated statements from December Articles containing potentially dated statements from December Articles containing potentially dated statements from April Articles containing potentially dated statements from April Articles containing potentially dated statements from January Articles containing potentially dated statements from January Articles containing potentially dated statements from December Articles containing potentially dated statements from December Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from August Articles containing potentially dated statements from August Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from June Articles containing potentially dated statements from June Articles containing potentially dated statements from March Articles containing potentially dated statements from March Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from OpenCorporates groupings