Induction motor Tesla (disambiguation) Tesla, Inc. ( -l or -l ) is an American multinational automotive and clean energy company. Headquartered in Austin , Texas, it designs, manufactures, and sells battery electric vehicles (BEVs), stationary battery energy storage devices from home to grid-scale , solar panels and solar shingles , and related products and services. clean energy battery electric vehicles energy storage solar panels solar shingles Martin Eberhard Marc Tarpenning Nikola Tesla chief executive officer Tesla is one of the world's most valuable companies in terms of market capitalization . Starting in July , it has been the world's most valuable automaker. From October to March , Tesla was a US$ trillion company , the sixth US company to reach that valuation. In , the company was ranked 69th in the Forbes Global . In , the company led the battery electric vehicle market, with .% share. world's most valuable companies in terms of market capitalization US$ trillion company Forbes Global Tesla exceeded $ trillion in market capitalization again between November and February , and since May . In November , Tesla approved a pay package worth $ trillion for Musk, which he is to receive over years if he meets specific goals. By the end of , the company lost its status as world's leading manufacturer of electric vehicles. Tesla has been the subject of lawsuits, boycotts, government scrutiny, and journalistic criticism , stemming from allegations of multiple cases of whistleblower retaliation, worker rights violations such as sexual harassment and anti-union activities , safety defects leading to dozens of recalls, the lack of a public relations department, and controversial statements from Musk, including overpromising on the company's driving assist technology and product release timelines. whistleblower anti-union activities public relations overpromising driving assist History of Tesla, Inc. The company was incorporated as Tesla Motors, Inc., on July , , by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning . They served as chief executive officer and chief financial officer , respectively. Eberhard said that he wanted to build "a car manufacturer that is also a technology company", with its core technologies as "the battery, the computer software, and the proprietary motor". Martin Eberhard Marc Tarpenning chief executive officer chief financial officer series A funding J. B. Straubel chief technical officer A lawsuit settlement agreed to by Eberhard and Tesla in September allows all five  Eberhard, Tarpenning, Wright, Musk, and Straubel  to call themselves co-founders. Tesla Roadster (first generation) Elon Musk took an active role within the company, but was not deeply involved in day-to-day business operations. The company's strategy was to start with a premium sports car aimed at early adopters and then move into more mainstream vehicles, including sedans and affordable compacts. early adopters In February , Musk led Tesla's Series B venture capital funding round of $ million, which added Valor Equity Partners to the funding team. Musk co-led the third, $ million round in May which saw investment from prominent entrepreneurs including Google co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page , and former eBay president Jeff Skoll . A fourth round worth $ million in May brought the total private financing investment to over $ million. venture capital funding Valor Equity Partners Sergey Brin Ze'ev Drori Tesla began production of the Roadster in inside the service bays of a former Chevrolet dealership in Menlo Park. By January , Tesla had raised $ million and delivered cars. Musk had contributed $ million of his money to the company. In June , Tesla was approved to receive $ million in interest-bearing loans from the United States Department of Energy . The funding, part of the $ billion Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program , supported the engineering and production of the Model S sedan, as well as the development of commercial powertrain technology. Tesla repaid the loan in May , with $ million in interest. United States Department of Energy Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program Government Funding for Strategic U.S. Clean Energy Projects Tesla Fremont Factory In January Tesla received a $ million government loan from the Department of Energy's Loan Program Office (LPO), for U.S.-made advanced clean energy technology commercialization and manufacturing . This strategic funding was critical to the creation of the model S, and was repaid in full. Department of Energy's commercialization manufacturing In May , Tesla purchased the NUMMI plant in Fremont, California , from Toyota for $ million. On June , , the company went public via an initial public offering (IPO), the first American car company to do so since the Ford Motor Company had its IPO in . The company issued . million shares of common stock at a price of $ per share at its opening on the NASDAQ , raising $ million. Fremont, California initial public offering Ford Motor Company Tesla Factory Motor Trend Car of the Year On July , , Tesla became a NASDAQ- company. Tesla announced the Tesla Autopilot , a driver-assistance system, in . In September that year, all Tesla cars started shipping with sensors and software to support the feature, with what would later be called "hardware version ". Tesla Autopilot Tesla entered the energy storage market, unveiling its Tesla Powerwall (home) and Tesla Powerpack (business) battery packs in April . The company received orders valued at $ million within a week of the unveiling. Tesla Powerwall Tesla Powerpack Tesla began shipping its third vehicle, the luxury SUV Tesla Model X , in September , which had , pre-orders at the time. Tesla Model X SolarCity and Model () Tesla Energy Jon McNeill securities fraud charge from the SEC Global expansion and Model Y (present) Tesla introduced its second mass-market vehicle in March , the Model Y mid-size crossover SUV , based on the Model . Deliveries started in March . mid-size crossover SUV Gigafactory Shanghai Gigafactory Berlin Gigafactory Texas Gigafactory Mexico COVID- pandemic Alameda county Hewlett Packard cryptocurrency Between May and February , almost all major North America EV manufacturers announced plans to switch to Tesla's North American Charging Standard adapters on their EVs by , which is expected to be a stable source of recurring revenue for Tesla. In November, Tesla started shipping the Cybertruck, produced from Gigafactory Texas. North American Charging Standard In April , the company announced it was laying off % of its employees. In June, the company moved its incorporation from Delaware to Texas. In October, the company unveiled a concept version of two autonomous vehicles  the Cybercab and Robovan  and detailed that both would be an integral part of a Tesla ridehailing service called the Tesla Network , a future service it had previously teased in . ridehailing service Tesla Network In December , a Delaware court rejected Musk's $ billion pay package from Tesla, ruling that it was not properly approved by the company's board. The decision arose from a lawsuit by Tesla shareholders who claimed the compensation was excessive and not aligned with performance metrics. Musk's political advocacy far-right politics Donald Trump Department of Government Efficiency multiple protests artificial intelligence Bandra-Kurla Complex In December , Tesla's UK registrations fell by more than % year-on-year. UK sales also fell by .% year-on-year. In January , the title of world's largest battery electric vehicle manufacturer was lost to Chinese competitor BYD after full year deliveries were reported by both companies (,, vs ,, BEV sales). On January , , Musk stated that Tesla would discontinue the Model S and Model X in the second quarter of to focus on manufacturing the Optimus robot. In March , Elon Musk unveiled a joint project between Tesla and xAI. The project pairs xAI's Grok large language model , acting as a high-level navigator with a Tesla-developed AI agent that processes real-time computer screen video and keyboard and mouse actions. large language model On March , , SpaceX announced the project to build Terafab , a joint project with Tesla, SpaceX and xAI , to build a large semiconductor fabrication project centering on the construction of a vertically integrated "mega-fab" designed to produce more than one terawatt (one trillion watts) of artificial intelligence compute capacity per year, encompassing advanced logic chips , memory modules , and packaging technologies. semiconductor artificial intelligence logic chips memory modules As of April , Tesla offers five vehicle models: Model , Model Y, Semi, Cybertruck, and Cybercab. Tesla no longer sold three vehicle models, the first-generation Tesla Roadster , Model S, and Model X. Tesla has announced plans for a second-generation Roadster , along with future vehicles such as the Robovan. first-generation Tesla Roadster second-generation Roadster Tesla Model mid-size car rear-wheel drive Tesla Model Y mid-size crossover SUV Toyota Corolla The Tesla Semi is a Class semi-truck by Tesla, Inc., with a tri-motor, rear-wheel drive layout. Tesla states that the Semi has approximately three times the power of a typical diesel semi truck, and a range of miles ( km). Two prototype trucks were first shown in November and initial deliveries were made to PepsiCo on December , . High-volume production started on April , . Tesla Cybertruck pickup truck Tesla Cybercab The Tesla Cybercab is a two-passenger battery-electric self-driving car under development by Tesla. It is expected to be part of the Tesla Robotaxi service. two-passenger self-driving car A concept version of the Cybercab was unveiled in October , with prototypes providing short rides to attendees of the announcement event. The concept vehicle had no steering wheel or pedals. The production of Cybercab is planned to be fully autonomous and to be released before . Tesla Roadster (second generation) cold-gas thrusters all-wheel drive torque vectoring Tesla next-generation vehicle The Tesla next-generation vehicle is an announced battery electric platform. It would become the third platform for the company. Vehicles based on this platform are not expected before . In July , Musk said that the platform should be expected to become available in the first half of . Tesla next-generation vehicle Tesla Robovan The Tesla Robovan is an electric autonomous van planned for future development by Tesla. Announced in October , the vehicle is being designed to carry up to passengers. Tesla Roadster (first generation) The first generation Tesla Roadster was a two-seat sports car, rebuilt from the Lotus Elise chassis. It was produced from to . The Roadster was the first highway-legal serial production electric car to use lithium-ion battery cells, and the first production all-electric car to travel more than miles ( km) per charge. Lotus Elise Tesla Model S full-size car all-wheel drive Tesla Model X The Model X is a mid-size luxury crossover SUV offered in -, -, and -passenger configurations with either a dual- or trimotor, all-wheel drive layout. The rear passenger doors open vertically with an articulating " falcon-wing " design. A prototype Model X was first shown in February , and deliveries started in September . The Model X shares around percent of its content with the Model S. The vehicle has seen one major design refresh in June which revised the interior. mid-size luxury crossover SUV falcon-wing As of January , , Tesla has officially discontinued its basic Autopilot driver-assistance feature for new vehicles in the United States and Canada, replacing it with only Traffic Aware Cruise Control as the standard safety system. The move is part of a broader shift toward its more advanced Full Self-Driving (FSD) system, which is available only as a monthly subscription as of February , . Tesla cars come with "Standard Connectivity", which provides navigation using a cellular connection. For a fee, Tesla offers a subscription to "Premium Connectivity", which adds live traffic and satellite maps to navigation, internet browsing, and media streaming. live traffic satellite maps In , Tesla recommended having any Tesla car inspected every , miles or once a year, whichever comes first. In early , the manual was changed to say: "your Tesla does not require annual maintenance and regular fluid changes," and instead it recommends periodic servicing of the brake fluid, air conditioning, tires, and air filters. Tesla Supercharger Supercharger is the branding used by Tesla for its high-voltage direct current fast chargers . fast chargers The Supercharger network was introduced on September , , as the Tesla Model S entered production, with six stations in California. As of November , Tesla operates a network of about , Supercharger stations with over , connectors worldwide. The majority are located in three regions: Asia Pacific (, stations), North America (,), and Europe (,). Superchargers can currently output as much as kilowatts (kW). Destination charging location network Hilton Worldwide vehicle insurance in the United States American Automobile Association Insurance Institute for Highway Safety The company says that it uniquely understands its vehicles, technology, and repair costs, and can eliminate traditional insurance carriers' additional charges. In states where allowed, the company uses individual vehicle data to offer personalized pricing that can increase or decrease in cost based on the prior month's driving safety score. As of January , Tesla offers insurance in the US states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. The company also offers insurance for non-Tesla vehicles owned by Tesla owners. Tesla Robotaxi Robotaxi is a ride-hailing service launched by Tesla in . It currently operates in Austin, Texas . Robotaxis currently rely on human supervisors, with the intent of eventually allowing for fully autonomous rides. Austin, Texas Tesla Energy solar energy generation Tesla Energy products include solar panels (built by other companies for Tesla), the Tesla Solar Roof (a solar shingle system), and the Tesla Solar Inverter. Storage products include the Powerwall (a home energy storage device) and the Megapack (a large-scale energy storage system). Tesla Solar Roof solar shingle home energy storage Tesla Factory Fremont, California dealerships sells vehicles directly Analysts describe Tesla as vertically integrated, given how it develops many components in-house, such as batteries, motors, and software. The practice of vertical integration is rare in the automotive industry, where companies typically outsource % of components to suppliers and focus on engine manufacturing and final assembly. Tesla generally allows its competitors to license its technology, stating that it wants to help its competitors accelerate the world's use of sustainable energy. Licensing agreements include provisions whereby the recipient agrees not to file patent suits against Tesla, or to copy its designs directly. Tesla retains control of its other intellectual property, such as trademarks and trade secrets to prevent direct copying of its technology. trade secrets On April , , Tesla secured a deal with Tata Electronics to supply semiconductor chips, marking a significant step in Tesla's expansion into India's automotive market. On May , , Tesla announced that it had abandoned its plan for next-generation gigacasting, a cutting-edge manufacturing technique. Initially aiming to revolutionize production and reduce costs, Tesla has now opted for its more proven method of casting vehicle underbodies in three pieces. This strategic shift reflects the company's focus on self-driving vehicles and adjusting to market challenges. Tesla is highly vertically integrated and develops many components in-house, such as batteries, motors, and software. As of , Tesla uses four different battery cell form factors: , , , and prismatic. battery cell Tesla purchases these batteries from three suppliers, CATL , LG Energy Solution , and Panasonic , the latter of which has co-located some of its battery production inside Tesla's Gigafactory Nevada. Tesla is also currently building out the capacity to produce its own batteries. LG Energy Solution Tesla batteries sit under the vehicle floor to save interior space. Tesla uses a multipart aluminum and titanium protection system to protect the battery from road debris or vehicle crashes. Business analysis company BloombergNEF estimated Tesla's battery pack cost in at $ per kilowatt-hour (kWh), versus an industry average of $ per kWh. BloombergNEF kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery first generation Roadster intumescent nickel-cobalt-aluminum The next battery type to be used was the -type ( mm diameter, mm height) cylindrical cell. The larger size was optimized for electric cars, allowing for a higher capacity per cell and a lower number of cells per battery pack. The was introduced for the Model and Y vehicles. For vehicles built at the Tesla Fremont Factory, the company sources -type batteries with a nickel-cobalt-aluminum cathode chemistry from Panasonic's production line at Gigafactory Nevada. In January , Panasonic had the capacity to produce GWh per year of battery cells there. Tesla Energy also uses cells in its Powerwall home energy storage product. For vehicles made at Gigafactory Shanghai and Gigafactory Berlin, batteries with a nickel-cobalt-manganese (NMC) cathode chemistry are sourced from LG Energy Solution's factories in China. nickel-cobalt-manganese lithium iron phosphate battery Tesla invests in lithium-ion battery research. In , the company established a -year battery research and development partnership at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, Canada, with lead researcher Jeff Dahn . Tesla acquired Maxwell Technologies for over $ million  and sold in . It also acquired Hibar Systems. Tesla purchased several battery manufacturing patent applications from Springpower International, a small Canadian battery company. lithium-ion battery Dalhousie University sulfuric acid sodium sulfate Tesla uses over-the-air updates to deliver updates to vehicles, adding features or fixing problems. This is enabled by tight integration between a few powerful onboard computers, compared to the way automakers had previously handled technology, by purchasing off-the-shelf electronic components for each subsystem that typically could not interface at the software level. over-the-air updates Tesla makes two kinds of electric motors: an induction motor , and an internal permanent magnet (IPM) motor with synchronous reluctance motor (SynRM) characteristics. induction motor internal permanent magnet synchronous reluctance motor The older design is a three-phase four-pole alternating current induction motor (also called an asynchronous motor) with a copper rotor (which inspired the Tesla logo). These motors use electromagnetic induction , by varying magnetic field to produce torque. Induction motors are used as the rear motor in the Model S and Model X, as the front motor in the Model and Model Y, and were used in the first-generation Roadster. three-phase alternating current electromagnetic induction counter-electromotive forces North American Charging Standard North American Charging Standard North American Charging Standard "Autopilot" and "Full Self-Driving (Supervised)" Tesla Autopilot Tesla Autopilot advanced driver-assistance system SAE International traffic-aware cruise control self-parking National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Tesla Model Ys repeatedly predicted self-driving Tesla claims that its driver-assistance features improve safety and reduce accidents caused by driver fatigue or inattention. However, collisions and fatalities involving Autopilot and FSD have attracted scrutiny from media and regulators. Industry experts and safety advocates have raised concerns about the deployment of the software to the general public, calling the practice risky and potentially irresponsible. In November , the company announced the Tesla Glass technology group. The group produced the roof glass for the Tesla Model . It also produces the glass used in the Tesla Solar Roof 's solar shingles . Tesla Solar Roof solar shingles In preparation for Model production, Tesla heavily invested in robotics and automation for vehicle assembly, and between and , the company purchased several companies involved in automation and robotics including Compass Automation, Grohmann Automation, Perbix Machine Company, and Riviera Tool and Die. Musk later said that the robotics slowed production of the vehicles. Subsequently, Tesla shifted towards using massive casting machines, known as Giga Presses . These machines streamline production by creating large, single-piece underbodies, leading to reductions in production time, labor costs, factory footprint, and the number of welding robots. Critics note that reducing the number of components makes the vehicles harder or more expensive to repair after an accident. Giga Presses The company has been developing a humanoid robot called Optimus since . Musk has stated that Optimus leverages the same core software powering Tesla's Full Self-Driving technology and has suggested that it could be used within Tesla's factories to mitigate labor shortages through the automation of repetitive tasks. humanoid robot On January , , Tesla announced it would stop manufacturing the Model S and Model X to focus efforts on Optimus. The goal is to produce million robots per year at the Fremont facility. List of Tesla factories The company operates seven large factories and about a dozen smaller factories around the world. As of December , the company also operates more than , retail stores, galleries, service, delivery, and body shop locations globally. Tesla Fremont Factory Gigafactory Nevada Gigafactory New York Gigafactory Texas Gigafactory Mexico Tesla Model S Tesla Fremont Factory Tesla was founded in San Carlos, California in . In , the company opened its first production facility at a former Chevrolet dealership in Menlo Park, California . The original roadster was assembled inside the service bays until and used the company's showroom as a retail store. Another retail store was opened in Los Angeles the same year. In , Tesla moved its corporate headquarters and opened a powertrain development facility in Palo Alto . San Carlos, California Menlo Park, California Tesla's first major assembly plant occupies the former NUMMI plant in Fremont, California, known as the Tesla Fremont Factory . The factory was originally opened by General Motors in , and then operated by NUMMI, a joint venture of GM and Toyota from . The joint venture ended when GM entered bankruptcy in . In , Toyota agreed to sell the plant to Tesla at a significant discount. Tesla Fremont Factory General Motors GM entered bankruptcy Gigafactory Nevada Gigafactory Nevada Gigafactory New York Republic Steel Buffalo Billion Tesla Solar Roof In , Tesla assembled tension fabric buildings at the Fremont plant to meet production goals of , cars produced a month. The structure was assembled in two weeks and measured feet high, feet wide, and feet long. tension fabric buildings Gigafactory Texas Gigafactory Texas Tesla acquired a former JC Penney distribution center near Lathrop, California in to build the "Megafactory" to manufacture the Megapack , the company's large-scale energy storage product. The location opened in . Lathrop, California Tesla announced in February it would open a new global engineering headquarters in Palo Alto, moving into a corporate campus once owned by Hewlett Packard , located a couple of miles from Tesla's former headquarters building. Hewlett Packard Tesla has announced plans to open a Gigafactory Mexico , the company's sixth Gigafactory, near Monterrey , Mexico. However, as of July , the company had placed construction on hold until after the United States presidential election because former President Trump has pledged to add tariffs on cars made in Mexico. Gigafactory Mexico United States presidential election Tesla facilities in Tilburg Tesla Automation Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg Tesla opened its first European store in June in London . Tesla's European headquarters are in the Netherlands , part of a group of Tesla facilities in Tilburg , including the company's European Distribution Centre. the Netherlands Tesla facilities in Tilburg In late , Tesla acquired German engineering firm Grohmann Engineering as a new division dedicated to helping Tesla increase the automation and effectiveness of its manufacturing process. After winding down existing contracts with other manufacturers, the renamed Tesla Automation now works exclusively on Tesla projects and is expanding its operations in Germany through the acquisition of other manufacturing specialists. Grohmann Engineering Tesla Automation Tesla announced its plans to build a car and battery factory in Europe in . Several countries campaigned to be the host, and eventually Germany was chosen in November . On March , , Tesla's first European Gigafactory named Gigafactory Berlin opened with planned capacity to produce , electric vehicles annually as well as batteries for the cars. Gigafactory Berlin Gigafactory Shanghai Tesla opened its first showroom in Asia in Tokyo , Japan, in October . Tesla Model 3s Tesla expressed interest in in expanding to India and perhaps building a future Gigafactory in the country. The company established a legal presence in the nation in and plans to open an office in Pune starting in October . J. B. Straubel lithium-ion cells nickel-based lithium-ion battery In March , the outgoing CEO of Panasonic stated that the company plans to reduce its reliance on Tesla as its battery partnership evolves. Tesla has long-term contracts in place for lithium supply. In September , Tesla signed a sales agreement with Piedmont Lithium to buy high-purity lithium ore for up to ten years, specifically to supply " spodumene concentrate from Piedmont's North Carolina mineral deposit ". In , Tesla contracted for , tonnes of spodumene concentrate over four years from the Core Lithium 's lithium mine in the Northern Territory of Australia. Piedmont Lithium mineral deposit Core Lithium Northern Territory Tesla also has a range of minor partnerships, for instance, working with Airbnb and hotel chains to install destination chargers at selected locations. Another minor partnership would include Tesla's partnership with insurance company, Lemonade , to launch an autonomous car insurance. Mercedes-Benz B-Class Electric Drive International Petroleum Investment Company Freightliner Trucks Mercedes-Benz A-Class E-Cell Mercedes-Benz B250e lithium-ion battery Toyota RAV4 EV In May , Tesla and Toyota announced a deal in which Tesla purchased the former NUMMI factory from Toyota for $ million, Toyota purchased $ million in Tesla stock, and the two companies collaborated on an electric vehicle. In July , the companies announced they would work together on a second generation Toyota RAV4 EV . The vehicle was unveiled at the October Los Angeles Auto Show and pilot vehicles were built for a demonstration and evaluation program that ran through . Tesla supplied the lithium metal-oxide battery and other powertrain components based on components from the Roadster. Toyota RAV4 EV Los Angeles Auto Show The production version was unveiled in August , using battery pack, electronics, and powertrain components from the Tesla Model S sedan (also launched in ). The RAV4 EV had a limited production run which resulted in just under , vehicles being produced, before it was discontinued in . Initial versions of Autopilot were developed in partnership with Mobileye beginning in . Mobileye ended the partnership on July , , citing "disagreements about how the technology was deployed". List of lawsuits involving Tesla, Inc. Criticism of Tesla, Inc. Failed lawsuit alleging unfair review In , when Tesla was the subject of protests and vandalism in response to Elon Musk's political activities with the Trump government, former Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson published gloating remarks, saying that the vandalism was "not funny. But also, it's kinda hilarious. Especially if you're me." Jeremy Clarkson The Washington Post In May , a California judge ruled that the sexual harassment lawsuit could move to court, rejecting Tesla's request for closed-door arbitration. Tesla and unions Elon Musk and trade unions  Tesla Valentine's Day Giga New York Tesla has had labor disputes electric car solar panel opposition to unions National Labor Relations Board federal appeals court unionization Tesla Fremont Factory Gigafactory New York Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg Tesla Automation works councils collective bargaining agreements Swedish, Danish and Norwegian unions solidarity strikes Accidents, repairs, and safety violations In June , the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) took issue with Tesla's use of nondisclosure agreements (NDAs) regarding customer repairs and, in October , the NHTSA formally asked Tesla to explain its NDA policy regarding customers invited into the FSD Beta. Tesla has used NDAs on multiple occasions with both employees and customers to allegedly prevent possible negative coverage. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration nondisclosure agreements From to , Tesla's Fremont Factory had three times as many Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) violations as the ten largest US auto plants combined. An investigation by the Reveal podcast alleged that Tesla "failed to report some of its serious injuries on legally mandated reports" to downplay the extent of injuries. Occupational Safety and Health Administration arbitration unopposed motion The California Civil Rights Department filed a suit in alleging "a pattern of racial harassment and bias" at the Tesla Fremont factory. As of April , the department is also conducting a probe of the factory based on a complaint and claims that Tesla has been obstructing the investigation. According to Jalopnik , a study by iSeeCars found that Tesla had the highest fatal crash rate of any automaker in the United States. A lawsuit in California alleged that Tesla odometers were falsely exaggerating their readings to prematurely void their warranty. In in the US, Tesla faced a new federal investigation into possible safety defects in its FSD system. This followed separate incident reports where Tesla drivers said the system caused them to commit safety violations, such as driving through red traffic lights. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles creative accounting Zach Kirkhorn David Einhorn From to , Tesla earned more than $ million in Zero Emission Vehicle credits for a battery-swapping technology that was never made available to customers. Staff at California Air Resources Board were concerned that Tesla was "gaming" the battery swap subsidies and in recommended eliminating the credits. Zero Emission Vehicle California Air Resources Board Delaware Court of Chancery Delaware Supreme Court Securities and Exchange Commission class-action In September , Tesla disclosed that it was under investigation by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) regarding its Model production figures. Authorities were investigating whether the company misled investors and made projections about its Model production that it knew would be impossible to meet. A stockholder class action lawsuit against Tesla related to Model production numbers (unrelated to the FBI investigation) was dismissed in March . Federal Bureau of Investigation In May , Reuters reported that US federal prosecutors were investigating whether the company committed securities or wire fraud by "misleading investors and consumers" about Autopilot and Full Self-Driving. Tesla US dealership disputes auto dealerships Federal Trade Commission conflict of interest Tesla has sued former employees for stealing company information, including those who left to work for a rival such as XPeng and Zoox . For example, Guangzhi Cao, a Tesla engineer, was accused of uploading Tesla Autopilot source code to his iCloud account, and Alex Khatilov was accused of downloading files related to its Warp Drive software to his personal Dropbox account. Tesla Autopilot In , a class action was filed against Musk and the members of Tesla's board, alleging they breached their fiduciary duties by approving Musk's stock-based compensation plan. Musk received the first portion of his stock options payout, worth more than $ million, in May . class action In July , Tesla board members returned $ million to the company to settle a claim from a lawsuit alleging misappropriation of million stock options granted to Elon Musk, Kimbal Musk, Larry Ellison, and others from to . United States Environmental Protection Agency Bay Area Air Quality Management District In June , Tesla employee Martin Tripp leaked information that Tesla was scrapping or reworking up to % of its raw materials at the Nevada Gigafactory. After Tesla fired him for the leak, Tripp filed a lawsuit and claimed Tesla's security team gave police a false tip that he was planning a mass shooting at the Nevada factory. The court ruled in Tesla's favor on September , . Martin Tripp In January , California counties sued Tesla, accusing the company of violating state health and safety codes by illegally disposing of hazardous waste. Later that week, the case was settled on the conditions that Tesla pay US$. million and admit to acting "intentionally" and "negligently". Moreover, Tesla also agreed to train its employees on hazardous waste disposal and to have percent of Tesla's facilities audited for waste disposal for the next years. In August , Walmart filed a multi-million-dollar lawsuit against Tesla, claiming that Tesla's "negligent installation and maintenance" of solar panels caused roof fires at seven Walmart stores dating back to . Walmart settled with Tesla in November ; the terms of the settlement were not disclosed. In April , a Norwegian judge found Tesla guilty of throttling charging speed through a over-the-air software update, after they failed to respond to the lawsuit. The customers who were part of the lawsuit were awarded , Norwegian kroner each ($,). Few of these cases against Tesla ever make it to trial as most employees are made to sign arbitration agreements . Employees are afterwards required to resolve such disputes out of court, and behind closed doors. arbitration agreements According to the state's Department of Fair Employment and Housing, the Fremont factory is a racially segregated place where Black employees claim they are given the most menial and physically demanding work. The accusations of racism culminated in February with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing suing Tesla for "discriminating against its Black workers." In July , former employee Melvin Berry received $ million in his discrimination case in arbitration against the company after he claimed he was referred to by the n-word and forced to work longer hours at the Fremont plant. Owen Diaz vs. Tesla William Orrick COVID- pandemic in the United States earnings call Alameda County Fremont Factory Giga Shanghai USChinese relations persecution of Uyghurs in China In March , a class action antitrust lawsuit was filed against Tesla by Virginia M. Lambrix in San Francisco, alleging that the company unlawfully monopolized the market for maintenance and repair of its vehicles in violation of the Sherman Act and California antitrust law , as a result of which owners were "forced to pay supracompetitive prices and suffer exorbitant wait times" for maintenance services and repair parts. The lawsuit was later combined with four other similar suits. Sherman Act antitrust law Trina Thompson original equipment manufacturers Tesla Takedown In February , numerous planned protests occurred outside of Tesla showrooms and service centers throughout the US. The protests were in response to Musk's contentious actions as leader of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) at the beginning of Donald Trump's second term as US president. Department of Government Efficiency Lawsuits against Tesla critics and vehicle malfunction complainants in China Associated Press Criticism of Tesla, Inc. A Tesla vehicle was only the second product ever reviewed by the Mozilla Foundation that failed all of their privacy criteria. Mozilla Foundation A Tesla owner filed a lawsuit in following a Reuters report that Tesla employees shared "highly invasive videos and images recorded by customers' car cameras" with one another. whistleblower short-sellers Michael Burry The Big Short Scion Asset Management According to automotive journalist Jamie Kitman, when multiple CEOs of major automotive manufacturers approached Tesla for EV technology that Musk had claimed the company was willing to share, they instead were offered the opportunity to buy regulatory credits from the company. This suggested, according to Kitman, that "the company may not be as eager for the electric revolution to occur as it claims." In , the New York State Comptroller released an audit of the Giga New York factory project, concluding that it presented many red flags, including a lack of basic due diligence and that the factory itself produced only $. in economic benefits for every $ spent by the state. New York State Comptroller Giga New York due diligence solar-powered In , Model earned the Top Safety Pick+ Award from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety . In , Model Y has received the highest safety score of any car analyzed under Euro NCAP . Insurance Institute for Highway Safety In , Tesla won S&P Global Automotive Loyalty Awards in categories. In , TIME magazine named Model S as one of the best inventions of the past years, praising it as a "game-changing advance for electric vehicles". Motor Trend has shortlisted Cybertruck for the magazine's Truck of the Year, praising its steer-by-wire system and other tech, but criticizing "the design's many compromises". Motor Trend steer-by-wire On April , , Tesla issued a worldwide recall of , (~%) of the , vehicles it sold in due to faulty parking brakes which could become stuck and "prevent the vehicles from moving". On March , , Tesla issued a worldwide recall of , Model S cars built before April due to corrosion -susceptible power steering bolts, which could fail and require the driver to use "increased force" to control the vehicle. power steering In October , Tesla initiated a recall of nearly , Model X and Y vehicles throughout China for suspension issues. Soon after in November, the NHTSA announced it had opened its investigation into , Tesla cars regarding "front suspension safety issues", citing specifically  Model S and  Model X years. Cases of the "whompy wheel" phenomenon, which also included Model X and the occasional Model cars, have been documented through . In February , Tesla was required by the NHTSA to recall , Model S and Model X vehicles built from to due to using a flash memory device that was rated to last only to years. The problem was related to touchscreen failures that could possibly affect the rearview camera, safety systems, Autopilot and other features. The underlying technical reason is that the car writes a large amount of syslog content to the device, wearing it out prematurely. flash memory Also in February , the German Federal Motor Transport Authority (KBA) ordered Tesla to recall , Model X cars because of "body mouldings problems". In June , Tesla recalled , electric vehicles due to worries that brake caliper bolts might become loose, which could lead to loss of tire pressure, increasing the chance of a crash. In September , Tesla announced that it is recalling almost . million US model vehicles because the automatic window reversal system might not react correctly after detecting an obstruction, increasing the risk of injury. In response, Tesla announced an over-the-air software fix. In February , Tesla recalled its FSD software following a recommendation from NHTSA; the recall applied to approximately , cars. NHTSA found that FSD caused "unreasonable risk" when used on city streets. In March , about , Model Y Teslas were recalled for a bolting issue concerning the cars' second-row seats. Plug-in electric vehicle fire incidents  Tesla Kent, Washington List of Tesla Autopilot crashes involving fatalities A safety test conducted by the Dawn Project in August demonstrated that a test driver using the beta version of Full Self-Driving repeatedly hit a child-sized mannequin in its path, but there has been controversy over its conclusions. Several Tesla owners responded by conducting their own, independent tests using children; NHTSA released a statement warning against the practice. In , the California DMV filed a lawsuit against Tesla, claiming it had misled drivers about its vehicles' self-driving capabilities. The DMV sought to suspend Tesla's sales and manufacturing in the state of California for a minimum of days. In August , two researchers said they were able to take control of a Tesla Model S by hacking into the car's entertainment system. The hack required the researchers to physically access the car. Tesla issued a security update for the Model S the day after the exploit was announced. security update bug bounty program Amazon Web Services cryptocurrency mining ethical hackers In June , Martin Herfurt, a security researcher in Austria, discovered that changes made to make Tesla vehicles easier to start with NFC cards also allowed for pairing new keys to the vehicle, allowing an attacker to enroll their keys to a vehicle. US District Judge In May , German business newspaper Handelsblatt published a series of articles based on a trove of internal Tesla data submitted to them from informants. The gigabytes of data "contain[ed] over , accident reports involving phantom braking or unintended acceleration" as well as complaints about Tesla Autopilot. Dutch authorities responded by saying they were investigating the company for possible data privacy violations. Handelsblatt Dutch authorities In February , a German court declared Tesla Autopilot defective for normal use due to phantom braking issues. In February , a group of Australian buyers sued Tesla with a class action over multiple issues like battery range, driving assistance, and phantom braking. class action battery electric Canada's EV rebate program second Trump presidency Nazi salute controversy portmanteau Production and sales by quarter History of Tesla, Inc.  Timeline of production and sales car carriers auto manufacturer chart definition For the fiscal (and calendar) year , Tesla reported a net income of $. billion. The annual revenue was $. billion, an increase of % over the previous fiscal year. Of the revenue number in , $ million came from selling regulatory credits to other automakers to meet government pollution standards. That number has been a smaller percentage of revenue for multiple quarters. Tesla ended with $. billion of cash on hand, down $. billion from the end of . In February , a -K filing revealed that Tesla had invested some $. billion in the cryptocurrency bitcoin, and the company indicated it would soon accept bitcoin as a form of payment. Critics then pointed out how investing in cryptocurrency can run counter to Tesla's environmental goals. Tesla made more profit from the investment than the profit from selling cars in , due to the Bitcoin price increase after the investment was announced. The quarter ending June was the first time Tesla made a profit independent of Bitcoin and regulatory credits. Between and , a third of Tesla's profits came from government climate credits. The key trends for Tesla are (as at the financial year ending December ): Robyn Denholm (since November ) Robyn Denholm California State Teachers' Retirement System Steve Jurvetson Ira Ehrenpreis Antonio Gracias Kathleen Wilson-Thompson Larry Ellison J. B. Straubel Another criticism of the board composition is that most of the independent directors lack automotive industry experience. The exception is Robyn Denholm who served in finance and corporate reporting roles at Toyota Australia from to . Toyota Australia Other previous board members include businessman Steve Westly ; Daimler executive Herbert Kohler; CEO and Chairman of Johnson Publishing Company Linda Johnson Rice; and United Nations Special Envoy on Innovative Finance and Sustainable Investments Hiromichi Mizuno . Steve Westly Johnson Publishing Company United Nations Special Envoy Hiromichi Mizuno As of May , the board members are: The largest shareholders of Tesla in March were: From to , except for , Tesla has declared owing no taxes to the US government. Tesla likely saved $ million in US taxes over the years by shifting $ billion in profits to Singapore and the Netherlands. List of automobile manufacturers of the United States List of automobile manufacturers of the United States List of Easter eggs in Tesla products List of Easter eggs in Tesla products List of production battery electric vehicles List of production battery electric vehicles Plug-in electric vehicles in California Plug-in electric vehicles in California Plug-in electric vehicles in the United States Plug-in electric vehicles in the United States Vance, Ashlee (). Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future . New York: HarperCollins. ISBN - . OCLC . Vance, Ashlee - Higgins, Tim (). Power Play: Tesla, Elon Musk, and the Bet of the Century . Doubleday. ISBN - . Power Play: Tesla, Elon Musk, and the Bet of the Century - McKenzie, Hamish (). Insane Mode: How Elon Musk's Tesla Sparked an Electric Revolution to End the Age of Oil . New York: Dutton. ISBN - . - Niedermeyer, Edward (). Ludicrous: The Unvarnished Story of Tesla Motors . Dallas: BenBella. ISBN - . OCLC . Ludicrous: The Unvarnished Story of Tesla Motors - Tesla, Inc. on OpenSecrets , a website that tracks and publishes data on campaign finance and lobbying Tesla, Inc. OpenSecrets Business data for Tesla, Inc.: Google Reuters SEC filings Yahoo! SEC filings Companies in the Nasdaq- Companies listed on the Nasdaq Tesla, Inc. establishments in California establishments in California initial public offerings American companies established in American companies established in Battery electric vehicle manufacturers Battery electric vehicle manufacturers Car manufacturers of the United States Car manufacturers of the United States Companies based in Austin, Texas Companies based in Austin, Texas Companies in the Dow Jones Global Titans Companies in the Dow Jones Global Titans Electric motor manufacturers Electric vehicle battery manufacturers Electric vehicle battery manufacturers Electric vehicle infrastructure developers Electric vehicle infrastructure developers Electric vehicle manufacturers of the United States Electric vehicle manufacturers of the United States Luxury brands Luxury motor vehicle manufacturers Luxury motor vehicle manufacturers Manufacturing companies based in California Manufacturing companies based in California Manufacturing companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Manufacturing companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Motor vehicle manufacturers based in California Motor vehicle manufacturers based in California Motor vehicle manufacturers based in Texas Motor vehicle manufacturers based in Texas Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Production electric cars Sports car manufacturers Vehicle manufacturing companies established in Vehicle manufacturing companies established in Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments Pages using the Phonos extension Pages using the Phonos extension Pages using the Chart extension Pages using the Chart extension All accuracy disputes Accuracy disputes from May Accuracy disputes from May CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 German-language sources (de) Webarchive template wayback link