Nike, Inc. is an American athletic footwear and apparel corporation headquartered near Beaverton, Oregon . It is the world's largest supplier of athletic shoes and apparel and a major manufacturer of sports equipment , with revenue in excess of US$ billion in its fiscal year . Beaverton, Oregon athletic shoes sports equipment Bill Bowerman Phil Knight Nike Blazers Air Force Nike Skateboarding Hurley International As of , it employed , people worldwide. In , the brand alone was valued in excess of $ billion, making it the most valuable brand among sports businesses. Previously, in , the Nike brand was valued at $. billion. Nike ranked 89th in the Fortune list of the largest United States corporations by total revenue. The company ranked 239th in the Forbes Global companies in . Fortune Nike timeline Bill Bowerman Phil Knight Nike, originally known as Blue Ribbon Sports (BRS), was founded by University of Oregon track athlete Phil Knight and his coach, Bill Bowerman , on January , . The company initially operated in Eugene, Oregon , as a distributor for Japanese shoemaker Onitsuka Tiger , making most sales at track meets out of Knight's automobile. University of Oregon Phil Knight Bill Bowerman Eugene, Oregon Onitsuka Tiger University of Oregon Olympic gold medalist Summer Olympics waffle iron In its first year in business, BRS sold , pairs of Japanese running shoes, grossing $,. By , sales had reached $,. In , BRS opened its first retail store at Pico Boulevard in Santa Monica, California . In , due to increasing sales, BRS expanded retail and distribution operations on the East Coast, in Wellesley, Massachusetts . Santa Monica, California Wellesley, Massachusetts In , Bowerman used his wife's waffle iron to experiment on rubber to create a new sole for track shoes that would grip but be lightweight and increase the runner's speed. Oregon's Hayward Field was transitioning to an artificial surface, and Bowerman wanted a sole which could grip to grass or bark dust without the use of spikes. Bowerman was talking to his wife about this puzzle over breakfast, when the waffle iron idea came into play. Hayward Field Bowerman's design led to the introduction of the "Moon Shoe" in , so named because the waffle tread was said to resemble the footprints left by astronauts on the Moon. Further refinement resulted in the "Waffle Trainer" in , which helped fuel the explosive growth of Blue Ribbon Sports/Nike. Carolyn Davidson US Patent and Trademark Office In , the company hired John Brown and Partners, based in Seattle, as its first advertising agency . The following year, the agency created the first "brand ad" for Nike, called "There is no finish line", in which no Nike product was shown. By , Nike had attained a % market share in the US athletic shoe market, and the company went public in December of that year. advertising agency Wieden+Kennedy Smithsonian Institution Gary Gilmore Nike manufactured its first uniforms for a professional sports team in , when its jersey for the Portland Timbers of the North American Soccer League debuted. Throughout the 1980s, Nike expanded its product line to encompass many sports and regions throughout the world. In , Nike moved into its eight-building World Headquarters campus in Beaverton, Oregon. The first Nike retail store, dubbed Niketown, opened in downtown Portland in November of that year. Portland Timbers North American Soccer League World Headquarters downtown Portland Phil Knight announced in mid- that he would step down as chairman of Nike in . He officially stepped down from all duties with the company on June , . In a company public announcement on March , , Nike CEO Mark Parker said Trevor Edwards, a top Nike executive who was seen as a potential successor to the chief executive, was relinquishing his position as Nike's brand president and would retire in August. Mark Parker In October , John Donahoe was announced as the next CEO, and succeeded Parker on January , . In November , the company stopped selling directly through Amazon , focusing more on direct relationships with customers. John Donahoe In April , Nike announced it would cut approximately , workers, or about % of its workforce. Most of the affected employees work in the technology department. The layoffs were part of a turnaround plan led by CEO Elliott Hill and followed approximately job cuts in January . Nike has acquired and sold several apparel and footwear companies over the course of its history. Its first acquisition was the upscale footwear company Cole Haan in , followed by the purchase of Bauer Hockey in . In , Nike bought surf apparel company Hurley International from founder Bob Hurley. In , Nike paid US$ million to acquire sneaker company Converse . The company acquired Starter in and soccer uniform maker Umbro in . Bauer Hockey Hurley International In order to refocus its business lines, Nike began divesting itself of some of its subsidiaries in the 2000s. It sold Starter in and Bauer Hockey in . The company sold Umbro in and Cole Haan in . As of , Converse is the sole subsidiary of Nike. Nike acquired Zodiac, a consumer data analytics company, in March . In August , the company acquired Celect, a Boston-based predictive analytics company. In December , Nike purchased RTFKT Studios, a virtual shoe company that makes NFTs. In February , Nike acquired Datalogue, a New York-based company focused on digital sales and machine learning technology. Nike was made a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average in , when it replaced Alcoa . Dow Jones Industrial Average On December , , Nike's quarterly profit rose due to a percent increase in global orders for merchandise since April of that year. Future orders of shoes or clothes for delivery between December and April, rose to $. billion. Nike shares (NKE) rose . percent to $. in extended trading. In November , Nike announced it would initiate a $ billion share buyback, as well as a two-for-one stock split, with shares to begin trading at the decreased price on December . The split will be the seventh in company history. In June , Nike announced it would initiate a $ billion share buyback over four years, to begin in upon completion of the previous buyback program. For the fiscal year , Nike reported earnings of US$. billion, with annual revenue of US$. billion, an increase of .% over the previous fiscal cycle. Nike's shares traded at over $ per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$. billion in October . In February , the company said that roughly % of Nike stores in Greater China had closed due to the COVID- outbreak. In March , Nike reported a % drop in Chinese sales associated with stores' closure. It was the first decrease in six years. At the same time, the company's online sales grew by % during Q1 of . Also, the sales of personal training apps grew by % in China. In June , Nike warned that President Trumps new tariffs on key trading partners could add around $ billion to its costs this year, causing the company to shift some production out of China to reduce its exposure. Despite weaker quarterly revenue, Nikes shares rose over % after a better-than-expected earnings forecast, while the US and China also reached a deal to ease trade tensions. On April , the chief operating officer, Venkatesh Alagirisamy announced a cut of about , global operations jobs, especially from the technology department as part of Nike's business reorganization. The key trends of Nike are (as at the financial year ending May ): Nike produces a wide range of sports equipment and apparel. Nike Air Max combat sports American football cross training skateboarding cheerleading wireless sensor network In , Nike launched the SPARQ Training Program /Division. Some of Nike's newest shoes contain Flywire and Lunarlite Foam to reduce weight. The Air Zoom Vomero running shoe, introduced in and currently in its 11th generation, featured a combination of groundbreaking innovations including a full-length air cushioned sole, an external heel counter, a crashpad in the heel for shock absorption, and Fit Frame technology for a stable fit. SPARQ Training Program In , Nike told ESPN that it would cease using kangaroo skins in its products by the end of that year and debut "a new Nike-only, proprietary synthetic upper, [with] a new material that is a better performance solution and replaces the use of kangaroo leather." urban fashion hip-hop fashion youth fashion shell suits baseball caps Air Jordans Quickstrikes sneakerhead subculture popular clique casual chic leg warmers slouch socks bomber jackets compression shorts basketball uniforms 1990s fashion In , a new self-lacing shoe was introduced. Called the Nike Mag , which are replicas of the shoes featured in Back to the Future Part II , it had a preliminary limited release, only available by auction with all proceeds going to the Michael J. Fox Foundation . This was done again in . Back to the Future Part II Michael J. Fox Foundation Nike have introduced a premium line, focused more on streetwear than sports wear called NikeLab. In March , Nike announced its launch of a plus-size clothing line, which will feature new sizes 1X through 3X on more than products. Another significant development at this time was the Chuck Taylor All-Star Modern , an update of the classic basketball sneaker that incorporated the circular knit upper and cushioned foam sole of Nike's Air Jordans. Chuck Taylor All-Star Modern Miles Nadal Michael Jordan After acquiring RTFKT, Nike launched the Dunk Genesis Cryptokicks collection, which features over , NFTs. One design by Takashi Murakami was sold for $, in April . Takashi Murakami Nike World Headquarters unincorporated Washington County Columbia Sportswear Electro Scientific Industries Nike is planning to build a . million square foot expansion to its World Headquarters in Beaverton. The design will target LEED Platinum certification and will be highlighted by natural daylight, and a gray water treatment center. Nike is mainly owned by institutional investors, who hold around % of all shares. The largest shareholders of Nike in early were: Phil Knight State Street Global Advisors (.%) State Street Global Advisors Travis Knight Capital Research and Management Company (.%) Capital Research and Management Company Geode Capital Management (.%) Geode Capital Management Wellington Management Company (.%) Wellington Management Company AllianceBernstein Nike sweatshops Nike sweatshops minimum wage laws in Vietnam As of July , Nike stated that two-thirds of its factories producing Converse products still do not meet the company's standards for worker treatment. A July Associated Press article stated that employees at the company's plants in Indonesia reported constant abuse from supervisors. Associated Press During the 1990s, Nike faced criticism for the use of child labor in Cambodia and Pakistan in factories it contracted to manufacture soccer balls. Although Nike took action to curb or at least reduce the practice, it continues to contract its production to companies that operate in areas where inadequate regulation and monitoring make it hard to ensure that child labor is not being used. child labor in Cambodia In , a BBC documentary uncovered occurrences of child labor and poor working conditions in a Cambodian factory used by Nike. The documentary focused on six girls, who all worked seven days a week, often hours a day. In April , one of the biggest strikes in mainland China took place at the Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Dongguan shoe factory, producing amongst others for Nike. Yue Yuen did underpay an employee by yuan (. US Dollars) per month. The average salary at Yue Yuen is yuan per month. The factory employs , people. This practice was in place for nearly years. Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Paradise Papers On November , , the Paradise Papers , a set of confidential electronic documents relating to offshore investment , revealed that Nike is among the corporations that used offshore companies to avoid taxes. Paradise Papers electronic documents offshore investment offshore companies Netherlands Colin Kaepernick controversial decision to kneel Yahoo! Sports Fraternal Order of Police LeBron James Serena Williams National Black Police Association College of the Ozarks During the following week, Nike's stock price fell .%, even as online orders of Nike products rose % compared with the previous year. In the following three months, Nike reported a rise in sales. In July , Nike released a shoe featuring a Betsy Ross flag called the Air Max Quick Strike Fourth of July trainers. The trainers were designed to celebrate Independence Day . The model was subsequently withdrawn after Colin Kaepernick told the brand he and others found the flag offensive because of its association with slavery. Betsy Ross flag Independence Day Colin Kaepernick Nike's decision to withdraw the product drew criticism from Arizona's Republican Governor, Doug Ducey , and Texas's Republican Senator Ted Cruz . Nike's decision was praised by others due to the use of the flag by white nationalists . white nationalists Harbour City US Vice President Mike Pence criticized Nike for "siding with the Chinese Communist Party and silencing free speech". He claimed that after Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey was criticized by the Chinese government for his tweet supporting the Hong Kong protests , Nike removed Rockets merchandise from its stores in China. Chinese Communist Party Houston Rockets Daryl Morey Hong Kong protests Nike Vaporfly and Tokyo Olympics controversy World Athletics Tokyo Olympics technology doping LAZR swimsuit controversy Forced Uyghur labor allegations Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights Canadian Ombudsperson for Responsible Enterprise Welfare of animals used in sourcing Following criticism from animal rights groups, Nike declared its intent in to phase out the use of wool sourced from lambs that had been subjected to mulesing , a controversial practice involving the removal of skin from live lambs. Also in , Nike pledged to eliminate the use of kangaroo leather in favor of a synthetic alternative, in response to animal activists' charge that the killing of kangaroos was unethical. kangaroo leather In April , Nike setup branding, including a billboard with the slogan "You didnt come all this way for a walk in the park", at Peckham Rye park to coincide with the local parkrun . According to reports, Nike didn't give the organisers any advanced notice. The global head of communications for the parkrun organisation, Kirsty Woodbridge, accused Nike of trying to shame people unable to run. That same month, Nike had branding outside their flagship Boston store, to coincide with the Boston Marathon , with the slogan "Runners welcome. Walkers tolerated". Following strong criticism for not being inclusive to runners of all levels, Nike removed the sign and issued an apology. Boston Marathon In , New England based environmental organization Clean Air-Cool Planet ranked Nike among the top three companies (out of ) in a survey of climate-friendly companies. New England Nike has also been praised for its Nike Grind program, which closes the product lifecycle , by groups such as Climate Counts . product lifecycle Climate Counts Sulfur hexafluoride is an extremely potent and persistent greenhouse gas that was used to fill the cushion bags in all "Air"-branded shoes from to . tons was used during the peak in . Sulfur hexafluoride In , a project through the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill found workers were exposed to toxic isocyanates and other chemicals in footwear factories in Thailand. In addition to inhalation, dermal exposure was the biggest problem found. This could result in allergic reactions including asthmatic reactions. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill isocyanates water pollution Yangtze River Youngor Group perfluorinated compounds Back in , Nike started to use water free dyeing materials so that they can help reduce their water use in their Southeast Asian factories. CO e emissions science-based target Paris Agreement While emissions of Nike's two corporate jets represent less than .% of its total emissions, they have increased by % from to . In , Nike announced it was working with Newlight Technologies to find more eco-friendly materials for its sneakers. They specifically mentioned Newlight's AirCarbon product which is a bioplastic that can be used to make shoes. The bioplastic is used as a replacement to leather, plastic, and other materials that are like that. Newlight was reported saying that the goal is to reduce Nike's carbon footprint. Nike has taken steps to reduce its environmental impact. It has worked to reduce carbon emissions nearly % across its value chain from its FY11 baseline, and sourced from fewer, higher-performing contract factories. In , Nike began a program called "Move to Zero" in an effort to achieve zero waste and zero carbon in the organization's supply chain and product lifetime. The men's and women's sections of the collection contain at least % organic and recycled materials, including sustainably sourced cotton. Nike promotes its products through sponsorship agreements with celebrity athletes, professional teams and college athletic teams. Nike has endorsement deals with many top sports players such as LeBron James , Kevin Durant , and Serena Williams . sponsorship agreements LeBron James Kevin Durant Serena Williams King of Prussia King of Prussia, Pennsylvania In , Nike aired its first three national television ads, created by newly formed ad agency Wieden+Kennedy (W+K), during the broadcast of the New York Marathon . The Cannes Advertising Festival has named Nike its Advertiser of the Year in and , making it the first company to receive that honor twice. Wieden+Kennedy New York Marathon Nike also has earned the Emmy Award for best commercial in and . The first was for "The Morning After," a satirical look at what a runner might face on the morning of January , , if every dire prediction about the Y2K problem came to fruition. The second was for a spot called "Move," which featured a series of famous and everyday athletes in a variety of athletic pursuits. Y2K problem Nike was criticized for its use of the Beatles song " Revolution " in a commercial against the wishes of Apple Records , the Beatles' recording company. Nike paid US$, to Capitol Records Inc., which held the North American licensing rights to the recordings, for the right to use the Beatles' rendition for a year. Apple Records Capitol Records That same year, Apple Records sued Nike Inc., Capitol Records Inc., EMI Records Inc. and Wieden+Kennedy for $ million. Capitol-EMI countered by saying the lawsuit was "groundless" because Capitol had licensed the use of "Revolution" with the "active support and encouragement of Yoko Ono , a shareholder and director of Apple Records." EMI Records Nike discontinued airing ads featuring "Revolution" in March . Yoko Ono later gave permission to Nike to use John Lennon 's "Instant Karma" in another advertisement. John Lennon Nike was an early adopter of internet marketing , email management technologies, and using broadcast and narrowcast communication technologies to create multimedia marketing campaigns. internet marketing email management In late June , Nike received criticism from Ian MacKaye , owner of Dischord Records , guitarist/vocalist for Fugazi and The Evens , and front man of the defunct punk band Minor Threat , for appropriating imagery and text from Minor Threat's self-titled album 's cover art in a flyer promoting Nike Skateboarding 's East Coast demo tour. Ian MacKaye Dischord Records Minor Threat self-titled album Nike Skateboarding On June , Nike Skateboarding's website issued an apology to Dischord, Minor Threat, and fans of both and announced that it has tried to remove and dispose of all flyers. They stated that the people who designed it were skateboarders and Minor Threat fans themselves who created the advertisement out of respect and appreciation for the band. The dispute was eventually settled out of court between Nike and Minor Threat. Oxford Circus double entendre Thomas Menino The Boston Herald Charlotte Hornets Michael Jordan Michael Jordan Ilie Nastase Steve Prefontaine Bill Bowerman Nike has also sponsored many other successful track and field athletes over the years, such as Sebastian Coe , Carl Lewis , Jackie Joyner-Kersee , Michael Johnson and Allyson Felix . The signing of basketball player Michael Jordan in , with his subsequent promotion of Nike over the course of his career, with Spike Lee as Mars Blackmon , proved to be one of the biggest boosts to Nike's publicity and sales. track and field Sebastian Coe Jackie Joyner-Kersee Michael Johnson Allyson Felix Michael Jordan Mars Blackmon Penn State University Joe Paterno Kylian Mbappe Eric Cantona Edgar Davids Francesco Totti Thierry Henry Didier Drogba Andres Iniesta Wayne Rooney Cristiano Ronaldo Zlatan Ibrahimovic Eden Hazard Kylian Mbappe Lionel Messi Cristiano Ronaldo Nike has been the official ball supplier for the Premier League since the  season. In , Nike carried a commercial partnership with the Asian Football Confederation . In August , Nike announced that it will not renew its kit supply deal with Manchester United after the  season, citing rising costs. Since the start of the  season, Adidas has manufactured Manchester United's kit as part of a world-record -year deal worth a minimum of  million. Premier League Asian Football Confederation Manchester United Nike still has many of the top teams playing in their uniforms, including: FC Barcelona , Paris Saint-Germain and Chelsea and the national teams of Brazil, France, England, Uruguay and the Netherlands among many others. FC Barcelona Paris Saint-Germain John McEnroe Andre Agassi Pete Sampras Roger Federer Rafael Nadal Serena Williams Maria Sharapova Victoria Azarenka Aryna Sabalenka Carlos Alcaraz Jannik Sinner Tiger Woods Tiger Woods Rory McIlroy Scottie Scheffler Brooks Koepka Nelly Korda Tommy Fleetwood Nike was the official kit sponsor for the Indian cricket team from to . On February , , Nike announced it suspended its contract with South African limbless athlete Oscar Pistorius , due to him being charged with premeditated murder . Indian cricket team Oscar Pistorius premeditated murder Kobe Bryant Vince Carter Kevin Durant Giannis Antetokounmpo Jayson Tatum Paul George Luka Doncic Sheryl Swoops Lisa Leslie Dawn Staley Cynthia Cooper Sabrina Ionescu Caitlin Clark A news report originating from CNN reported that Nike spent $. billion, nearly a third of its sales, on marketing and endorsement contracts in the year . Nike and its Jordan brand sponsored men's and women's basketball teams in the NCAA tournament. Ties with the University of Oregon Nike and the University of Oregon Nike maintains strong ties, both directly and through partnerships with Phil Knight , with the University of Oregon . Nike designs the University of Oregon football program's team attire. New unique combinations are issued before every game day. Tinker Hatfield , who also redesigned the university's logo, leads this effort. Phil Knight University of Oregon Tinker Hatfield More recently, the corporation donated $. million towards the renovation and expansion of Hayward Field . Hayward Field Phil Knight has invested substantial personal funds towards developing and maintaining the university's athletic apparatus. His university projects often involve input from Nike designers and executives, such as Tinker Hatfield . Tinker Hatfield American Express HIV from mother to child areas heavily affected by AIDS Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities The Nike Community Ambassador Program, allows Nike employees from around the world to go out and give to their community. Over , employees from various Nike stores have participated in teaching children to be active and healthy. In , a study done by RTG Consulting Group reflected that Nike was the 3rd most relevant brand for Gen-Z in China . Roth MKM's Millennial survey reported in March that millennials with health and wellness concerns in the aftermath of the pandemic ranked brands like Nike, Adidas and Lululemon as their preferred brands for purchases. In January , a study by Rakuten concluded that Nike was the most popular sportswear brand in the US, followed by Lululemon and Adidas. most popular In July , a study by Kantar found that Americans consider Nike as the Most Inclusive Brands (alongside other top brands like Amazon , and Disney ). In January , Nike laid off employees primarily from distribution centres in Tennessee and Mississippi, as it looks to automate processes and boost profits. Bruce Brenn Dick Donahue Nike timeline Breaking2  A project by Nike to break the hour marathon barrier. List of companies based in Oregon List of companies based in Oregon United States Egan, Timothy (September , ). "The Swoon of the Swoosh" . The New York Times . "The Swoon of the Swoosh" Business data for Nike, Inc.: Google SEC filings Yahoo! SEC filings establishments in Oregon 1970s fashion 1980s fashion 1990s fashion 2000s fashion 2010s fashion 2020s fashion Athletic shoe brands American companies established in American companies established in Clothing companies established in Clothing companies established in Companies based in Beaverton, Oregon Companies based in Beaverton, Oregon Companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Nike brands Retail companies established in Retail companies established in Shoe brands Shoe companies of the United States Shoe companies of the United States Sporting goods manufacturers of the United States Sporting goods manufacturers of the United States Sportswear brands Swimwear manufacturers Watch brands 1980s initial public offerings Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments Pages using the Phonos extension Pages using the Phonos extension Pages including recorded pronunciations Pages including recorded pronunciations CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 maint: deprecated archival service CS1 maint: deprecated archival service All articles with dead external links All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February Articles with dead external links from February CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list Webarchive template wayback links Webarchive template wayback links CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list All articles with dead YouTube links All articles with dead YouTube links Articles with dead YouTube links from February Articles with dead YouTube links from February Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Articles with short description Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Use mdy dates from July Use American English from June Use American English from June All Wikipedia articles written in American English All Wikipedia articles written in American English Pages using infobox company with deprecated parameters Pages using infobox company with deprecated parameters Articles containing potentially dated statements from Articles containing potentially dated statements from All articles containing potentially dated statements All articles containing potentially dated statements All