Tesla, Inc. ( -lə or -lə ) is an American multinational automotive and clean energy company. Headquartered in Austin , Texas, it designs, manufactures, and sells battery electric vehicles (BEVs), stationary battery energy storage devices from home to grid-scale , solar panels and solar shingles , and related products and services. The company was incorporated in July 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning as Tesla Motors . Its name is a tribute to the inventor and electrical engineer Nikola Tesla . In February 2004, Elon Musk led Tesla's first funding round and became the company's chairman, subsequently claiming to be a co-founder; in 2008, he was named chief executive officer . The company began production of its first car model, the Roadster sports car, in 2008; the Model S sedan in 2012; the Model X SUV in 2015; the Model 3 sedan in 2017; the Model Y crossover in 2020; the Tesla Semi truck in 2022; and the Cybertruck pickup truck in 2023. Tesla is one of the world's most valuable companies in terms of market capitalization . Starting in July 2020, it has been the world's most valuable automaker. From October 2021 to March 2022, Tesla was a US$1 trillion company , the sixth US company to reach that valuation. In 2023, the company was ranked 69th in the Forbes Global 2000 . In 2024, the company led the battery electric vehicle market, with 17.6% share. Tesla exceeded $1 trillion in market capitalization again between November 2024 and February 2025, and since May 2025. In November 2025, Tesla approved a pay package worth $1 trillion for Musk, which he is to receive over 10 years if he meets specific goals. By the end of 2025, the company lost its status as world's leading manufacturer of electric vehicles. Tesla has been the subject of lawsuits, boycotts, government scrutiny, and journalistic criticism , stemming from allegations of multiple cases of whistleblower retaliation, worker rights violations such as sexual harassment and anti-union activities , safety defects leading to dozens of recalls, the lack of a public relations department, and controversial statements from Musk, including overpromising on the company's driving assist technology and product release timelines. The company was incorporated as Tesla Motors, Inc., on July 1, 2003, by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning . They served as chief executive officer and chief financial officer , respectively. Eberhard said that he wanted to build "a car manufacturer that is also a technology company", with its core technologies as "the battery, the computer software, and the proprietary motor". Ian Wright joined Eberhard and Tarpenning a few months later. In February 2004, the company raised US$7.5 million (equivalent to $12.8 million in 2025) in series A funding , including $6.5 million (equivalent to $11.1 million in 2025) from Elon Musk, who had received $176 million from the sale of his interest in PayPal two years earlier. Musk became the chairman of the board of directors and the largest shareholder of Tesla. J. B. Straubel joined Tesla in May 2004 as chief technical officer . A lawsuit settlement agreed to by Eberhard and Tesla in September 2009 allows all five – Eberhard, Tarpenning, Wright, Musk, and Straubel – to call themselves co-founders. Elon Musk took an active role within the company, but was not deeply involved in day-to-day business operations. The company's strategy was to start with a premium sports car aimed at early adopters and then move into more mainstream vehicles, including sedans and affordable compacts. In February 2005, Musk led Tesla's Series B venture capital funding round of $13 million, which added Valor Equity Partners to the funding team. Musk co-led the third, $40 million round in May 2006 which saw investment from prominent entrepreneurs including Google co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page , and former eBay president Jeff Skoll . A fourth round worth $45 million in May 2007 brought the total private financing investment to over $105 million. In August 2007, Eberhard was asked by the board, led by Musk, to step down as CEO. Eberhard then took the title of "President of Technology" before ultimately leaving the company in January 2008. Co-founder Marc Tarpenning, who served as the Vice President of Electrical Engineering of the company, also left the company in January 2008. In August 2007, Michael Marks was brought in as interim CEO, and in December 2007, Ze'ev Drori became CEO and president. Musk succeeded Drori as CEO in October 2008. In June 2009, Eberhard filed a lawsuit against Musk for allegedly forcing him out. The case was dismissed in August 2009. Tesla began production of the Roadster in 2008 inside the service bays of a former Chevrolet dealership in Menlo Park. By January 2009, Tesla had raised $187 million and delivered 147 cars. Musk had contributed $70 million of his money to the company. In June 2009, Tesla was approved to receive $465 million in interest-bearing loans from the United States Department of Energy . The funding, part of the $8 billion Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program , supported the engineering and production of the Model S sedan, as well as the development of commercial powertrain technology. Tesla repaid the loan in May 2013, with $12 million in interest. Government Funding for Strategic U.S. Clean Energy Projects In January 2010 Tesla received a $465 million government loan from the Department of Energy's Loan Program Office (LPO), for U.S.-made advanced clean energy technology commercialization and manufacturing . This strategic funding was critical to the creation of the model S, and was repaid in full. In May 2010, Tesla purchased the NUMMI plant in Fremont, California , from Toyota for $42 million. On June 29, 2010, the company went public via an initial public offering (IPO), the first American car company to do so since the Ford Motor Company had its IPO in 1956. The company issued 13.3 million shares of common stock at a price of $17 per share at its opening on the NASDAQ , raising $226 million. In October 2010, Tesla opened the Tesla Factory to start production of the Model S . In January 2012, Tesla ceased production of the Roadster, and in June 2012, the company launched its second car, the Model S luxury sedan. The Model S won several automotive awards during 2012 and 2013, including the 2013 Motor Trend Car of the Year , and became the first electric car to top the monthly sales ranking of a country, when it topped the Norwegian new car sales list in September 2013. The Model S was also the best-selling plug-in electric car worldwide for the years 2015 and 2016. On July 15, 2013, Tesla became a NASDAQ-100 company. Tesla announced the Tesla Autopilot , a driver-assistance system, in 2014. In September that year, all Tesla cars started shipping with sensors and software to support the feature, with what would later be called "hardware version 1". Tesla entered the energy storage market, unveiling its Tesla Powerwall (home) and Tesla Powerpack (business) battery packs in April 2015. The company received orders valued at $800 million within a week of the unveiling. Tesla began shipping its third vehicle, the luxury SUV Tesla Model X , in September 2015, which had 25,000 pre-orders at the time. SolarCity and Model 3 (2016–2018) Tesla entered the solar installation business in November 2016 with the purchase of SolarCity , in an all-stock $2.6 billion deal. The business was merged with Tesla's existing battery energy storage products division to form the Tesla Energy subsidiary. The deal was controversial because at the time of the acquisition, SolarCity was facing liquidity issues of which Tesla's shareholders were not informed. In February 2017, Tesla Motors changed its name to Tesla, Inc., to better reflect the scope of its expanded business. Jon McNeill , Tesla’s president of global sales, delivery and service, assumed responsibility for government relations in 2017. He later wrote The Algorithm , which includes a discussion of Tesla. Tesla unveiled its first mass-market vehicle in April 2016, the Model 3 sedan. The Model 3 was less expensive than Tesla's previous three vehicles, and within a week, the company received over 325,000 paid reservations. To speed up production and control costs, Tesla invested heavily in robotics and automation to assemble the Model 3, but the robotics actually slowed the production of the vehicles. This led to significant delays and production problems, a period which the company described as "production hell". By the end of 2018, the production problems had been overcome, and the Model 3 became the world's best-selling electric car from 2018 to 2021. This period of "production hell" put significant financial pressure on Tesla, and during this time it became one of the most shorted companies in the stock market. On August 8, 2018, amid the financial issues, Musk posted on social media that he was considering taking Tesla private. The plan did not materialize and gave rise to much controversy and many lawsuits including a securities fraud charge from the SEC , which would force Musk to pay a $20 million fine and step down as the company's chairman, although he was allowed to remain the CEO. Global expansion and Model Y (2019–present) From July 2019 to June 2020, Tesla reported four consecutive profitable quarters for the first time, which made it eligible for inclusion in the S&P 500 . During 2020, its share price increased 740%, and by December 14, 2020, its market capitalization was more than the next nine largest automakers combined, and it became the sixth most valuable company in the US. Tesla was added to the S&P index on December 21, 2020; it was the most valuable company ever added, and was the sixth-largest member of the index immediately after it was added. It became the sixth US company to reach $1 trillion in market capitalization in October 2021. Tesla introduced its second mass-market vehicle in March 2019, the Model Y mid-size crossover SUV , based on the Model 3. Deliveries started in March 2020. During this period, Tesla invested heavily in expanding its production capacity, opening three new Gigafactories in quick succession. Construction of Gigafactory Shanghai started in January 2019, as the first automobile factory in China fully owned by a foreign company (not a joint venture). The factory's first production vehicle, a Model 3, rolled out in December, less than one year after groundbreaking. Gigafactory Berlin broke ground in February 2020, and its production of the Model Y began in March 2022. Gigafactory Texas broke ground in June 2020, and its production of the Model Y began in April 2022. In March 2023, Tesla announced plans for a Gigafactory Mexico to open in 2025, but its groundbreaking has been delayed. At the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic , Tesla closed the Fremont Factory in March 2020 due to California state and Alameda county COVID restrictions. When California lifted restrictions, but the county did not, Tesla sued the county, and restarted production on May 11, 2020. The county lifted restrictions on May 13, 2020, and Tesla dropped its lawsuit. After the dispute with county officials, on December 1, 2021, Tesla moved its legal headquarters to Gigafactory Texas. However, Tesla continued to use its former headquarters building in Palo Alto, and over the next two years significantly expanded its footprint in California. The company opened its Megafactory to build Megapack batteries in Lathrop, California in 2022, and announced in February 2023 that it would establish a large global engineering headquarters in Palo Alto, moving into a corporate campus once owned by Hewlett Packard . In early 2021, Tesla became a major investor in bitcoin , acquiring $1.5 billion of the cryptocurrency , and on March 24, 2021, the company started accepting bitcoin as a form of payment for US vehicle purchases. However, after 49 days, the company ended bitcoin payments over concerns that the production of bitcoin was contributing to the consumption of fossil fuels, against the company's mission of encouraging the transition to sustainable energy. After the announcement, the price of bitcoin dropped around 12%. Musk later noted that Tesla would resume bitcoin payments if there was confirmation of at least 50% clean energy usage by bitcoin miners. Despite later reaching this milestone, Tesla did not return to accepting bitcoin. By July 2022 Tesla had sold about 75% of its bitcoin holdings at a loss, citing that the cryptocurrency was hurting the company's profitability. Between May 2023 and February 2024, almost all major North America EV manufacturers announced plans to switch to Tesla's North American Charging Standard adapters on their EVs by 2025, which is expected to be a stable source of recurring revenue for Tesla. In November, Tesla started shipping the Cybertruck, produced from Gigafactory Texas. In April 2024, the company announced it was laying off 10% of its employees. In June, the company moved its incorporation from Delaware to Texas. In October, the company unveiled a concept version of two autonomous vehicles – the Cybercab and Robovan – and detailed that both would be an integral part of a Tesla ridehailing service called the Tesla Network , a future service it had previously teased in 2019. In December 2024, a Delaware court rejected Musk's $56 billion pay package from Tesla, ruling that it was not properly approved by the company's board. The decision arose from a lawsuit by Tesla shareholders who claimed the compensation was excessive and not aligned with performance metrics. By February 2025, Tesla saw large decreases in its stock price and sales across Europe widely attributed to Musk's political advocacy and embrace of far-right politics . Polling found that Musk's ties to United States President Donald Trump and his Department of Government Efficiency were strongly correlated to decreasing views of Tesla, and triggered multiple protests , vandalism, gunfire, and arson at Tesla stores and charging stations. By March 7, Tesla's stock had decreased every week for seven straight weeks since Musk joined the Trump administration, making it the longest losing streak for Tesla in 15 years as a public company. On March 29, over 200 protests against Tesla were held worldwide. In July 2025, Tesla released a software update adding the artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot Grok to its vehicles. While the update provides in-car chatbot functionality, it does not give Grok control over vehicle functions. The same month, Tesla opened its first showroom in India at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai , showcasing the Model Y as its debut offering. In August, Tesla integrated Deepseek and Bytedance 's Doubao AIs into Chinese models. Unlike vehicles equipped with Grok, AI in Tesla's Chinese vehicles may be used to control vehicle functions, as well as act as a chatbot. In December 2025, Tesla's UK registrations fell by more than 29% year-on-year. UK sales also fell by 8.9% year-on-year. In January 2026, the title of world's largest battery electric vehicle manufacturer was lost to Chinese competitor BYD after full year 2025 deliveries were reported by both companies (2,256,714 vs 1,636,129 BEV sales). On January 28, 2026, Musk stated that Tesla would discontinue the Model S and Model X in the second quarter of 2026 to focus on manufacturing the Optimus robot. In March 2026, Elon Musk unveiled a joint project between Tesla and xAI. The project pairs xAI's Grok large language model , acting as a high-level navigator with a Tesla-developed AI agent that processes real-time computer screen video and keyboard and mouse actions. On March 21, 2026, SpaceX announced the project to build Terafab , a joint project with Tesla, SpaceX and xAI , to build a large semiconductor fabrication project centering on the construction of a vertically integrated "mega-fab" designed to produce more than one terawatt (one trillion watts) of artificial intelligence compute capacity per year, encompassing advanced logic chips , memory modules , and packaging technologies. As of April 2026 , Tesla offers five vehicle models: Model 3, Model Y, Semi, Cybertruck, and Cybercab. Tesla no longer sold three vehicle models, the first-generation Tesla Roadster , Model S, and Model X. Tesla has announced plans for a second-generation Roadster , along with future vehicles such as the Robovan. The Model 3 is a mid-size car with a fastback body style and either a dual-motor, all-wheel drive layout or a rear-motor, rear-wheel drive layout. The vehicle was designed to be more affordable than the luxury Model S sedan. A prototype Model 3 was first shown in 2016 and within a week, the company received over 325,000 paid reservations. Deliveries started in July 2017. The Model 3 ranked as the world's best-selling electric car from 2018 to 2021, and cumulative sales passed 1 million in June 2021. The vehicle has seen one major design refresh in September 2023 which revised the exterior and interior. The Model Y is a mid-size crossover SUV offered in 5- and 7-passenger configurations with a single‐motor, rear-wheel drive or a dual-motor, all-wheel drive layout. The vehicle was designed to be more affordable than the luxury Model X SUV. A prototype Model Y was first shown in March 2019, and deliveries started in March 2020. The Model Y shared around 75 percent of its content with the Model 3. In the first quarter of 2023, the Model Y outsold the Toyota Corolla to become the world's best-selling car, the first electric vehicle to claim the title. The Tesla Semi is a Class 8 semi-truck by Tesla, Inc., with a tri-motor, rear-wheel drive layout. Tesla states that the Semi has approximately three times the power of a typical diesel semi truck, and a range of 500 miles (800 km). Two prototype trucks were first shown in November 2017 and initial deliveries were made to PepsiCo on December 1, 2022. High-volume production started on April 29, 2026. The Cybertruck is a full-sized pickup truck . First announced in November 2019, pilot production began in July 2023, after being pushed back multiple times, and deliveries began on November 30, 2023. Three models are offered: rear-wheel drive, dual-motor all-wheel drive, and trimotor all-wheel drive, with EPA range estimates of 320–340 miles (510–550 km), depending on the model. The truck's exterior design, made from flat sheets of unpainted stainless steel, earned a notably polarizing reception from the media. Tesla initially planned for Cybertruck production capacity of more than 250,000 units, but as of 2025 the company is only selling around 20,000 units per year. The Tesla Cybercab is a two-passenger battery-electric self-driving car under development by Tesla. It is expected to be part of the Tesla Robotaxi service. A concept version of the Cybercab was unveiled in October 2024, with 20 prototypes providing short rides to attendees of the announcement event. The concept vehicle had no steering wheel or pedals. The production of Cybercab is planned to be fully autonomous and to be released before 2027. On November 16, 2017, Tesla unveiled the second generation Roadster with a purported range of 620 miles (1,000 km) with a 200-kilowatt-hour (720 MJ) battery pack that would achieve 0–60 miles per hour (0–97 km/h) in 1.9 seconds; and 0–100 mph (0–161 km/h) in 4.2 seconds, and a top speed over 250 mph (400 km/h). A " SpaceX Package" would include cold-gas thrusters . The vehicle would have three electric motors, allowing all-wheel drive and torque vectoring during cornering. The base price was set at $200,000. Initially scheduled to ship in 2020, the vehicle has been repeatedly delayed. In July 2024, Musk said that the Roadster should enter production in 2025. The set date for the start of production is now 2027. The Tesla next-generation vehicle is an announced battery electric platform. It would become the third platform for the company. Vehicles based on this platform are not expected before 2025. In July 2024, Musk said that the platform should be expected to become available in the first half of 2025. The Tesla Robovan is an electric autonomous van planned for future development by Tesla. Announced in October 2024, the vehicle is being designed to carry up to 20 passengers. The first generation Tesla Roadster was a two-seat sports car, rebuilt from the Lotus Elise chassis. It was produced from 2008 to 2012. The Roadster was the first highway-legal serial production electric car to use lithium-ion battery cells, and the first production all-electric car to travel more than 200 miles (320 km) per charge. The Model S is a full-size car sedan with a liftback body style and a dual motor, all-wheel drive layout. Development of the Model S began before 2007, and deliveries started in June 2012. The Model S has seen two major design refreshes, first in April 2016, which introduced a new front-end design, and again in June 2021, which revised the interior. The Model S was the top-selling plug-in electric car worldwide in 2015 and 2016. More than 250,000 vehicles have been sold as of December 2018 (when Tesla merged production numbers for the Model S and Model X). The Model X is a mid-size luxury crossover SUV offered in 5-, 6-, and 7-passenger configurations with either a dual- or trimotor, all-wheel drive layout. The rear passenger doors open vertically with an articulating " falcon-wing " design. A prototype Model X was first shown in February 2012, and deliveries started in September 2015. The Model X shares around 30 percent of its content with the Model S. The vehicle has seen one major design refresh in June 2021 which revised the interior. As of January 22, 2026, Tesla has officially discontinued its basic Autopilot driver-assistance feature for new vehicles in the United States and Canada, replacing it with only Traffic Aware Cruise Control as the standard safety system. The move is part of a broader shift toward its more advanced Full Self-Driving (FSD) system, which is available only as a monthly subscription as of February 14, 2026. Tesla cars come with "Standard Connectivity", which provides navigation using a cellular connection. For a fee, Tesla offers a subscription to "Premium Connectivity", which adds live traffic and satellite maps to navigation, internet browsing, and media streaming. Tesla's strategy is to service its vehicles first through remote diagnosis and repair. If a problem cannot be resolved remotely, Tesla dispatches a mobile technician or directs customers to a company-owned service center. As of October 2024 , the company operates 1,306 retail stores, galleries, service, delivery and body shop locations globally. Tesla has said that it does not want to make a profit on vehicle servicing, which has traditionally been a large profit center for most auto dealerships. In 2016, Tesla recommended having any Tesla car inspected every 12,500 miles or once a year, whichever comes first. In early 2019, the manual was changed to say: "your Tesla does not require annual maintenance and regular fluid changes," and instead it recommends periodic servicing of the brake fluid, air conditioning, tires, and air filters. Supercharger is the branding used by Tesla for its high-voltage direct current fast chargers . The Supercharger network was introduced on September 24, 2012, as the Tesla Model S entered production, with six stations in California. As of November 2025 , Tesla operates a network of about 7,900 Supercharger stations with over 75,000 connectors worldwide. The majority are located in three regions: Asia Pacific (3,000 stations), North America (3,000), and Europe (1,500). Superchargers can currently output as much as 500 kilowatts (kW). Destination charging location network Tesla also has a network of "Destination Chargers", slower than Superchargers and intended for locations where customers are expected to park and stay for several hours, such as hotels, restaurants, or shopping centers. Unlike the Supercharger network, Tesla does not own the destination chargers; instead, property owners set up the devices and set pricing. When the network first launched in 2014, Tesla provided free charging equipment and covered installation costs. One of the largest providers is hotel chain Hilton Worldwide which in 2023 announced an agreement with Tesla to install 20,000 chargers across 2,000 of its properties in North America by 2025. Tesla has offered its own vehicle insurance in the United States since 2017 and has been acting as an independent insurance producer since 2021 as Tesla Insurance Services, Inc. It was introduced after the American Automobile Association (AAA), a major insurance carrier, raised rates for Tesla owners in June 2017 after a report concluded that the automaker's vehicles crashed more often and were pricier to repair than comparable vehicles. A study in 2018 based on data from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety confirmed the findings. The company says that it uniquely understands its vehicles, technology, and repair costs, and can eliminate traditional insurance carriers' additional charges. In states where allowed, the company uses individual vehicle data to offer personalized pricing that can increase or decrease in cost based on the prior month's driving safety score. As of January 2023 , Tesla offers insurance in the US states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Texas, Utah, and Virginia. The company also offers insurance for non-Tesla vehicles owned by Tesla owners. Robotaxi is a ride-hailing service launched by Tesla in 2025. It currently operates in Austin, Texas . Robotaxis currently rely on human supervisors, with the intent of eventually allowing for fully autonomous rides. Tesla subsidiary Tesla Energy develops, builds, sells, and installs solar energy generation systems and battery energy storage products (as well as related products and services) to residential, commercial, and industrial customers. The subsidiary was created by the merger of Tesla's existing battery energy storage products division with SolarCity, a solar energy company that Tesla acquired in 2016. In 2023, the company deployed 14.7 gigawatt-hours of battery energy storage products, an increase of 125% over 2022, but only deployed solar energy systems capable of generating 223 megawatts , a decrease of 36% over 2022. Tesla Energy products include solar panels (built by other companies for Tesla), the Tesla Solar Roof (a solar shingle system), and the Tesla Solar Inverter. Storage products include the Powerwall (a home energy storage device) and the Megapack (a large-scale energy storage system). For large-scale customers, Tesla Energy operates an online platform which allows for automated, real-time power trading, demand forecasting and product control. In March 2021, the company said its online products were managing over 1.2 GWh of storage. For home customers, the company operates a virtual power company in Texas called Tesla Electric, which utilizes the company's online platforms to manage customers Powerwall devices, discharging them into the grid to sell power when prices are high, earning money for customers. At the time of Tesla's founding in 2003, electric vehicles were costly. In 2006, Musk stated that Tesla's strategy was to first produce high-price, low-volume vehicles, such as sports cars, for which customers are less sensitive to price. This would allow it to progressively bring down the cost of batteries, which in turn would allow it to offer cheaper and higher volume cars. Tesla's first vehicle, the Roadster, was low-volume (fewer than 2,500 were produced) and priced at over $100,000. The next models, the Model S and Model X, are more affordable but still luxury vehicles. The Model 3 and the Model Y, are priced still lower, and aimed at a higher volume market, selling over 100,000 vehicles each quarter. Tesla continuously updates the hardware of its cars rather than waiting for a new model year, unlike nearly every other car manufacturer. Unlike other automakers, Tesla does not rely on franchised dealerships to sell vehicles. Instead, the company sells vehicles directly through its website and a network of company-owned stores. The company is the first automaker in the United States to sell cars directly to consumers since the widespread adoption of the franchised dealer model. Some jurisdictions, particularly in the United States, prohibit auto manufacturers from directly selling vehicles to consumers. In these areas, Tesla has locations that it calls galleries that the company says "educate and inform customers about our products, but such locations do not actually transact in the sale of vehicles." In total, Tesla operates nearly 400 stores and galleries in more than 35 countries. These locations are typically located in retail shopping districts, inside shopping malls, or other high-traffic areas, instead of near other auto dealerships. Analysts describe Tesla as vertically integrated, given how it develops many components in-house, such as batteries, motors, and software. The practice of vertical integration is rare in the automotive industry, where companies typically outsource 80% of components to suppliers and focus on engine manufacturing and final assembly. Tesla generally allows its competitors to license its technology, stating that it wants to help its competitors accelerate the world's use of sustainable energy. Licensing agreements include provisions whereby the recipient agrees not to file patent suits against Tesla, or to copy its designs directly. Tesla retains control of its other intellectual property, such as trademarks and trade secrets to prevent direct copying of its technology. On April 15, 2024, Tesla secured a deal with Tata Electronics to supply semiconductor chips, marking a significant step in Tesla's expansion into India's automotive market. On May 2, 2024, Tesla announced that it had abandoned its plan for next-generation gigacasting, a cutting-edge manufacturing technique. Initially aiming to revolutionize production and reduce costs, Tesla has now opted for its more proven method of casting vehicle underbodies in three pieces. This strategic shift reflects the company's focus on self-driving vehicles and adjusting to market challenges. Tesla is highly vertically integrated and develops many components in-house, such as batteries, motors, and software. As of 2023 , Tesla uses four different battery cell form factors: 18650 , 2170 , 4680 , and prismatic. Tesla purchases these batteries from three suppliers, CATL , LG Energy Solution , and Panasonic , the latter of which has co-located some of its battery production inside Tesla's Gigafactory Nevada. Tesla is also currently building out the capacity to produce its own batteries. Tesla batteries sit under the vehicle floor to save interior space. Tesla uses a multipart aluminum and titanium protection system to protect the battery from road debris or vehicle crashes. Business analysis company BloombergNEF estimated Tesla's battery pack cost in 2021 at $112 per kilowatt-hour (kWh), versus an industry average of $132 per kWh. Tesla was the first automaker to use cylindrical lithium-ion battery cells. When it built the first generation Roadster , it used off-the-shelf 18650-type (18 mm diameter, 65 mm height) cylindrical batteries that were already used for other consumer electronics. The cells provided an engineering challenge because each has a relatively low capacity, so thousands needed to be bundled together in a battery pack. Electrical and thermal management also proved to be a challenge, requiring liquid cooling and an intumescent fire prevention chemical. However, the decision turned out to be pragmatic because there was already a mature manufacturing process that could produce a high volume of the cells at a consistent quality. Although the 18650-type cells are the oldest technology, they are used in the Model S and X vehicles. Tesla sources these batteries with a nickel-cobalt-aluminum (NCA) cathode chemistry from Panasonic's factories in Japan. The next battery type to be used was the 2170-type (21 mm diameter, 70 mm height) cylindrical cell. The larger size was optimized for electric cars, allowing for a higher capacity per cell and a lower number of cells per battery pack. The 2170 was introduced for the Model 3 and Y vehicles. For vehicles built at the Tesla Fremont Factory, the company sources 2170-type batteries with a nickel-cobalt-aluminum cathode chemistry from Panasonic's production line at Gigafactory Nevada. In January 2021, Panasonic had the capacity to produce 39 GWh per year of battery cells there. Tesla Energy also uses 2170 cells in its Powerwall home energy storage product. For vehicles made at Gigafactory Shanghai and Gigafactory Berlin, batteries with a nickel-cobalt-manganese (NMC) cathode chemistry are sourced from LG Energy Solution's factories in China. Tesla's latest cylindrical cell design is the 4680-type (46 mm diameter, 80 mm height) introduced in 2021. The battery was developed in-house by Tesla and is physically 5 times bigger than the 2170-type, again allowing for a higher capacity per cell and a lower number of cells per battery pack. Currently, Tesla builds the 4680 cells itself and has not disclosed the cathode chemistry, though several independent analyses have indicated that it utilizes a nickel-manganese-cobalt (NMC811) chemistry. The company has already opened production lines in Fremont, California, and plans to open lines inside Gigafactory Nevada and Gigafactory Texas. The 4680 cells are used in the Model Y and Cybertruck built at Gigafactory Texas. Tesla also uses prismatic (rectangular) cells in many entry-level Model 3 and Model Y vehicles. The prismatic cells are a lithium iron phosphate battery (LFP or ), which is a less energy-dense type, but does not contain any nickel or cobalt, which makes it less expensive to produce. Tesla sources these batteries from CATL's factories in China. As of April 2022 , nearly half of Tesla's vehicle production used prismatic cells. Tesla Energy also uses prismatic cells in its Megapack grid-scale energy storage product. Tesla invests in lithium-ion battery research. In 2016, the company established a 5-year battery research and development partnership at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, Canada, with lead researcher Jeff Dahn . Tesla acquired Maxwell Technologies for over $200 million – and sold in 2021. It also acquired Hibar Systems. Tesla purchased several battery manufacturing patent applications from Springpower International, a small Canadian battery company. In 2023 Tesla broke ground on a $375 million lithium refining facility near Robstown , Texas in the US. The plant's process will eliminate the use of sulfuric acid in lithium processing, thereby eliminating the associated sodium sulfate waste product. Local concerns have been raised over the plant's water usage with initial estimates of 400,000 US gal (1,500,000 L; 330,000 imp gal) per day for normal operation, rising to a peak usage estimate of 8,000,000 US gal (30,000,000 L; 6,700,000 imp gal) per day. Tesla uses over-the-air updates to deliver updates to vehicles, adding features or fixing problems. This is enabled by tight integration between a few powerful onboard computers, compared to the way automakers had previously handled technology, by purchasing off-the-shelf electronic components for each subsystem that typically could not interface at the software level. The system has also allowed Tesla to control which features customers have access to. For example, for ease of assembly, all Model 3 vehicles were built with heated rear seats, but only customers who purchased a premium interior could turn them on. However, Tesla has allowed customers who didn't pay for a premium interior to purchase access to the heated rear seats. Tesla uses a similar software lock feature for Enhanced Autopilot and Full-Self Driving features, even though all vehicles are equipped with the computers and cameras necessary to enable those features. Tesla makes two kinds of electric motors: an induction motor , and an internal permanent magnet (IPM) motor with synchronous reluctance motor (SynRM) characteristics. The older design is a three-phase four-pole alternating current induction motor (also called an asynchronous motor) with a copper rotor (which inspired the Tesla logo). These motors use electromagnetic induction , by varying magnetic field to produce torque. Induction motors are used as the rear motor in the Model S and Model X, as the front motor in the Model 3 and Model Y, and were used in the first-generation Roadster. Since the introduction of the Model 3 in 2017, Tesla has also been building IPM-SynRM motors. These motors use an iron rotor , with slots cut into the metal where magnets are inserted in the internal core. As an IPM motor, it produces excellent starting torque; however, performance declines at high speeds due to counter-electromotive forces . For high-speed operation, Tesla engineers used iron's reluctance property, which allows it to spin in synchronization with the magnetic field of the stator if channels are cut into the core. These channels were also an ideal internal location for the permanent magnets to be mounted. The IPM-SynRM motor is currently used as the rear motor in the Model 3 and Model Y, the front motor of 2019-onward versions of the Model S and X, and are expected to be used in the Tesla Semi. North American Charging Standard The North American Charging Standard (NACS) is an electric vehicle charging connector system developed by Tesla. It has been used on all North American market Tesla vehicles since 2012 and was opened for use by other manufacturers in 2022. Since then, nearly every other vehicle manufacturer has announced that starting from 2025, their electric vehicles sold in North America will be equipped with the NACS charge port. Several electric vehicles charging network operators and equipment manufacturers have also announced plans to add NACS connectors. "Autopilot" and "Full Self-Driving (Supervised)" Tesla Autopilot is an advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS) developed by Tesla, Inc. that provides partial vehicle automation, corresponding to Level 2 automation as defined by SAE International . All Tesla vehicles produced after April 2019 include Autopilot, which provides autosteer and traffic-aware cruise control . As of February 2026, customers can subscribe to an optional Level 2 package called "Full Self-Driving (Supervised)" (FSD), which adds semi-autonomous navigation on nearly all roads, self-parking , and the ability to summon the car from a parking space. In January 2026, MotorTrend said FSD was the best ADAS on the market. Since 2013, Tesla CEO Elon Musk has repeatedly predicted that the company would achieve fully autonomous driving (SAE Level 5 ) within one to three years, but as of April 2026 , these goals are still to be met. The branding of Full Self-Driving has drawn criticism for potentially misleading consumers. Tesla vehicles currently operate at Level 2 automation, which requires continuous driver supervision and does not constitute "full" self-driving capability. Previously, the Autopilot branding was also criticized for similar reasons, despite the fact that no autopilot system in aircraft rendered them fully autonomous. Tesla claims that its driver-assistance features improve safety and reduce accidents caused by driver fatigue or inattention. However, collisions and fatalities involving Autopilot and FSD have attracted scrutiny from media and regulators. Industry experts and safety advocates have raised concerns about the deployment of the software to the general public, calling the practice risky and potentially irresponsible. In November 2016, the company announced the Tesla Glass technology group. The group produced the roof glass for the Tesla Model 3. It also produces the glass used in the Tesla Solar Roof 's solar shingles . In preparation for Model 3 production, Tesla heavily invested in robotics and automation for vehicle assembly, and between 2015 and 2017, the company purchased several companies involved in automation and robotics including Compass Automation, Grohmann Automation, Perbix Machine Company, and Riviera Tool and Die. Musk later said that the robotics slowed production of the vehicles. Subsequently, Tesla shifted towards using massive casting machines, known as Giga Presses . These machines streamline production by creating large, single-piece underbodies, leading to reductions in production time, labor costs, factory footprint, and the number of welding robots. Critics note that reducing the number of components makes the vehicles harder or more expensive to repair after an accident. The company has been developing a humanoid robot called Optimus since 2022. Musk has stated that Optimus leverages the same core software powering Tesla's Full Self-Driving technology and has suggested that it could be used within Tesla's factories to mitigate labor shortages through the automation of repetitive tasks. On January 28, 2026, Tesla announced it would stop manufacturing the Model S and Model X to focus efforts on Optimus. The goal is to produce 1 million robots per year at the Fremont facility. The company operates seven large factories and about a dozen smaller factories around the world. As of December 2024 , the company also operates more than 1,350 retail stores, galleries, service, delivery, and body shop locations globally. Tesla was founded in San Carlos, California in 2003. In 2008, the company opened its first production facility at a former Chevrolet dealership in Menlo Park, California . The original roadster was assembled inside the service bays until 2012 and used the company's showroom as a retail store. Another retail store was opened in Los Angeles the same year. In 2010, Tesla moved its corporate headquarters and opened a powertrain development facility in Palo Alto . Tesla's first major assembly plant occupies the former NUMMI plant in Fremont, California, known as the Tesla Fremont Factory . The factory was originally opened by General Motors in 1962, and then operated by NUMMI, a joint venture of GM and Toyota from 1984. The joint venture ended when GM entered bankruptcy in 2009. In 2010, Toyota agreed to sell the plant to Tesla at a significant discount. Tesla's first purpose-built facility was opened in Nevada in 2016. Gigafactory Nevada produces the Powerwall, battery cells in partnership with Panasonic, Model 3 drivetrains, and the Tesla Semi. The factory received substantial subsidies ( abatements and credits ) from the local and state government, that, in exchange for opening in their jurisdiction, allowed Tesla to operate essentially tax-free for 10 years, later extended to 20 years in exchange for expanding the factory to add a production line for the Tesla Semi and add additional battery manufacturing capacity. As part of the acquisition of SolarCity in 2016, Tesla gained control of Gigafactory New York in Buffalo on the site of a former Republic Steel plant. The state of New York spent cash to build and equip the factory through the Buffalo Billion program. In 2017, the factory started production of the Tesla Solar Roof , but faced multiple production challenges. Since 2020, Tesla has also assembled Superchargers in New York. The plant has been criticized for offering little economic benefit for the state funding. In 2018, Tesla assembled tension fabric buildings at the Fremont plant to meet production goals of 5,000 cars produced a month. The structure was assembled in two weeks and measured 53 feet high, 150 feet wide, and 900 feet long. On July 23, 2020, Tesla picked Austin, Texas, as the site of its fifth Gigafactory, since then known as Gigafactory Texas . Giga Texas is the only factory that produces the Tesla Cybertruck and produces Model Y cars for the Eastern United States. On December 1, 2021, Tesla announced it relocated its legal headquarters from Palo Alto to the Gigafactory Texas site in Austin. However, Tesla has retained the Palo Alto building. On April 7, 2022, Tesla celebrated the opening of Gigafactory Texas in a public event. Tesla acquired a former JC Penney distribution center near Lathrop, California in 2021 to build the "Megafactory" to manufacture the Megapack , the company's large-scale energy storage product. The location opened in 2022. Tesla announced in February it would open a new global engineering headquarters in Palo Alto, moving into a corporate campus once owned by Hewlett Packard , located a couple of miles from Tesla's former headquarters building. Tesla has announced plans to open a Gigafactory Mexico , the company's sixth Gigafactory, near Monterrey , Mexico. However, as of July 2024 , the company had placed construction on hold until after the 2024 United States presidential election because former President Trump has pledged to add tariffs on cars made in Mexico. Tesla opened its first European store in June 2009 in London . Tesla's European headquarters are in the Netherlands , part of a group of Tesla facilities in Tilburg , including the company's European Distribution Centre. In late 2016, Tesla acquired German engineering firm Grohmann Engineering as a new division dedicated to helping Tesla increase the automation and effectiveness of its manufacturing process. After winding down existing contracts with other manufacturers, the renamed Tesla Automation now works exclusively on Tesla projects and is expanding its operations in Germany through the acquisition of other manufacturing specialists. Tesla announced its plans to build a car and battery factory in Europe in 2016. Several countries campaigned to be the host, and eventually Germany was chosen in November 2019. On March 22, 2022, Tesla's first European Gigafactory named Gigafactory Berlin opened with planned capacity to produce 500,000 electric vehicles annually as well as batteries for the cars. Tesla opened its first showroom in Asia in Tokyo , Japan, in October 2010. In July 2018, Tesla signed an agreement with Chinese authorities to build a factory in Shanghai , China, which was Tesla's first Gigafactory outside the United States. The factory building was finished in August 2019, and the initial Tesla Model 3s were in production from Gigafactory Shanghai in October 2019. In 2024, China accounted for 21% of Tesla sales revenue, and was the second-largest market for Tesla after the United States, which accounted for 48% of its sales. Tesla also sold 37% of its cars in China in 2024. Tesla expressed interest in 2023 in expanding to India and perhaps building a future Gigafactory in the country. The company established a legal presence in the nation in 2021 and plans to open an office in Pune starting in October 2023. In January 2010, Tesla and battery cell maker Panasonic announced that they would together develop nickel-based lithium-ion battery cells for electric vehicles. Beginning in 2010, Panasonic invested $30 million for a multi-year collaboration on new battery cells designed specifically for electric vehicles. In July 2014, Panasonic reached a basic agreement with Tesla to participate in battery production at Giga Nevada. Tesla and Panasonic also collaborated on the manufacturing and production of photovoltaic (PV) cells and modules at the Giga New York factory in Buffalo, New York. The partnership started in mid-2017 and ended in early 2020, before Panasonic exited the solar business entirely in January 2021. In March 2021, the outgoing CEO of Panasonic stated that the company plans to reduce its reliance on Tesla as its battery partnership evolves. Tesla has long-term contracts in place for lithium supply. In September 2020, Tesla signed a sales agreement with Piedmont Lithium to buy high-purity lithium ore for up to ten years, specifically to supply " spodumene concentrate from Piedmont's North Carolina mineral deposit ". In 2022, Tesla contracted for 110,000 tonnes of spodumene concentrate over four years from the Core Lithium 's lithium mine in the Northern Territory of Australia. Tesla also has a range of minor partnerships, for instance, working with Airbnb and hotel chains to install destination chargers at selected locations. Another minor partnership would include Tesla's partnership with insurance company, Lemonade , to launch an autonomous car insurance. Daimler and Tesla began working together in late 2007. On May 19, 2009, Daimler bought a stake of less than 10% in Tesla for a reported $50 million. As part of the collaboration, Herbert Kohler, vice-president of E-Drive and Future Mobility at Daimler, took a Tesla board seat. On July 13, 2009, Daimler sold 40% of its acquisition to Aabar, an investment company controlled by the International Petroleum Investment Company owned by the government of Abu Dhabi . In October 2014, Daimler sold its remaining holdings for a reported $780 million. Tesla supplied battery packs for Freightliner Trucks in 2010. The company also built electric-powertrain components for the Mercedes-Benz A-Class E-Cell , with 500 cars planned to be built for trial in Europe beginning in September 2011. Tesla produced and co-developed the Mercedes-Benz B250e 's powertrain, which ended production in 2017. The electric motor was rated 134 hp (100 kW) and 230 pound force-feet (310 N⋅m), with a 36 kWh (130 MJ) battery. The vehicle had a driving range of 200 km (124 mi) with a top speed of 150 km/h (93 mph). Daimler division Smart produced the Smart ED2 cars from 2009 to 2012 which had a 14-kilowatt-hour (50 MJ) lithium-ion battery from Tesla. In May 2010, Tesla and Toyota announced a deal in which Tesla purchased the former NUMMI factory from Toyota for $42 m