Digital marketing is a component of marketing that uses digital technologies such as desktop computers , mobile phones , and other digital media platforms to promote products and services. It has significantly transformed how brands and businesses use technology for marketing since the 1990s and 2000s. As digital platforms became increasingly incorporated into marketing plans and everyday life, and as people increasingly used digital devices instead of visiting physical shops, digital marketing campaigns have become increasingly prevalent, employing combinations of methods. These methods include search engine optimization (SEO), search engine marketing (SEM), content marketing , influencer marketing , content automation, campaign marketing, data -driven marketing, e-commerce marketing, social media marketing , social media optimization , e-mail direct marketing , display advertising , e-books , optical disks and games. Digital marketing also extends to non-Internet channels that provide digital media, such as television , mobile phones ( SMS and MMS ), callbacks, and on-hold mobile ringtones. The extension to non-Internet channels differentiates digital marketing from online marketing . Digital marketing effectively began in 1990 when the Archie search engine was created as an index for FTP sites. During the 1980s, the storage capacity of computers had already large enough to store large volumes of customer information. As a result, companies started choosing online techniques such as database marketing rather than relying on limited list brokers . These databases allowed companies to track customers' information more effectively, transforming the relationship between buyers and sellers. In the 1990s, the term digital marketing was coined. The first clickable banner ad , the "You Will" campaign by AT&T , launched in 1994. Within the first four months, 44% of all people who viewed the advertisement clicked on it. Early digital marketing efforts focused primarily on simple HTML websites and the burgeoning practice of email marketing, which enabled direct communication with consumers. In the 2000s, with increasing numbers of Internet users and the introduction of the iPhone , customers began searching for products and making decisions online instead of consulting a salesperson , which created a new problem for the marketing department of a company. Additionally, a survey conducted in the United Kingdom in 2000 revealed that most retailers had not yet registered their own domain names. These challenges encouraged marketers to explore new ways to integrate digital technology into marketing strategies. At the same time, pay-per-click (PPC) advertising, introduced by Google AdWords in 2000, allowed businesses to target specific keywords, making digital marketing more measurable and cost-effective. The mid-2000s saw the emergence of social media platforms such as Facebook (2004), YouTube (2005), and Twitter (2006). These platforms revolutionized digital marketing by facilitating direct and interactive engagement with consumers. In 2007, marketing automation was introduced as a response to the rapidly evolving marketing climate. Marketing automation is the process by which software is used to automate conventional marketing processes. Marketing automation helps companies to segment customers, launch multichannel marketing campaigns, and provide personalized information for customers., based on their specific activities. In this way, users' activity (or lack thereof) triggers a personal message that is customized to the user in their preferred platform. However, despite the benefits of marketing automation many companies are struggling to adapt it to their everyday uses correctly. Digital marketing became increasingly sophisticated during 2000s and 2010s, when the proliferation of devices capable of accessing digital media led to sudden growth. Statistics produced in 2012 and 2013 showed that digital marketing continued to grow significantly. With the development of social media in the 2000s, such as LinkedIn , Facebook , YouTube , and Twitter , consumers became highly dependent on digital electronics in their daily lives. Therefore, they expected a seamless user experience across different channels for searching product information. The change in customer behavior improved the diversification of marketing technology. Digital media growth was estimated at 4.5 trillion online ads served annually with digital media spending at 48% growth in 2010. An increasing portion of advertising stems from businesses employing Online Behavioural Advertising (OBA) to tailor advertising for internet users, but OBA raises concerns about consumer privacy and data protection . Nonlinear marketing, a type of interactive marketing, is a long-term marketing approach that builds on businesses collecting information about an Internet user's online activities and trying to be visible in multiple areas. Unlike traditional marketing techniques, which involve direct, one-way messaging to consumers (via print, television , and radio advertising), nonlinear digital marketing strategies are centered on reaching prospective customers across multiple online channels. Combined with higher consumer knowledge and the demand for more sophisticated consumer offerings, this change has forced many businesses to rethink their outreach strategy and adopt or incorporate omnichannel, nonlinear marketing techniques to maintain sufficient brand exposure, engagement, and reach. Nonlinear marketing strategies involve efforts to adapt the advertising to different platforms and to tailor the advertising to different individual buyers rather than a large coherent audience. Some studies indicate that consumer responses to traditional marketing approaches are becoming less predictable for businesses. According to a 2018 study, nearly 90% of online consumers in the United States researched products and brands online before visiting the store or making a purchase. The Global Web Index estimated that in 2018, a little more than 50% of consumers researched products on social media. Businesses often rely on individuals portraying their products in a positive light on social media, and may adapt their marketing strategy to target people with large social media followings in order to generate such comments. In this manner, businesses can use consumers to advertise their products or services, decreasing the cost for the company. One of the key objectives of modern digital marketing is to raise brand awareness , the extent to which customers and the public are familiar with and recognize a particular brand. Enhancing brand awareness is important in digital marketing, and marketing in general, because of its impact on brand perception and consumer decision-making. According to the 2015 essay, "Impact of Brand on Consumer Behavior": "Brand awareness, as one of the fundamental dimensions of brand equity , is often considered to be a prerequisite of consumers' buying decision, as it represents the main factor for including a brand in the consideration set . Brand awareness can also influence consumers' perceived risk assessment and their confidence in the purchase decision, due to familiarity with the brand and its characteristics." Recent trends show that businesses and digital marketers are prioritizing brand awareness, focusing more on their digital marketing efforts on cultivating brand recognition and recall than in previous years. This is evidenced by a 2019 Content Marketing Institute study, which found that 81% of digital marketers have worked on enhancing brand recognition over the past year. Another Content Marketing Institute survey revealed that 89% of B2B marketers now believe improving brand awareness to be more important than efforts directed at increasing sales. Increasing brand awareness is a focus of digital marketing strategy for a number of reasons: Online methods used to build brand awareness Digital marketing strategies may include the use of one or more online channels and techniques (omnichannel) to increase brand awareness among consumers. Building brand awareness may involve such methods/tools as: Search engine optimization (SEO) Search engine optimization techniques may be used to improve the visibility of business websites and brand-related content for common industry-related search queries. The importance of SEO to increase brand awareness is said to correlate with the growing influence of search results and search features like featured snippets, knowledge panels, and local SEO on customer behavior. SEM, also known as PPC advertising, involves the purchase of ad space in prominent, visible positions atop search results pages and websites. Search ads have been shown to have a positive impact on brand recognition, awareness and conversions. 33% of searchers who click on paid ads do so because they directly respond to their particular search query. Social media marketing is characterized by its constant engagement with consumers, emphasizing content creation and interaction skills. It involves real-time monitoring, analysis, summarization, and management of the marketing process, performed via platforms like Hootsuite or Sprout Social , which support these activities and allow adjustments to marketing strategies based on real-time feedback from the market and consumers. 70% of marketers list increasing brand awareness as their number one goal for marketing on social media platforms. As of 2021, LinkedIn has been added as one of the most-used social media platforms by business leaders for its professional networking capabilities. 56% of marketers believe personalization content – brand-centered blogs, articles, social updates, videos, landing pages – improves brand recall and engagement. Digital Marketing Channels are systems based on the Internet that can create, accelerate, and transmit product value from producer to a consumer terminal, through digital networks. Digital marketing is facilitated by multiple Digital Marketing channels, as an advertiser one's core objective is to find channels which result in maximum two-way communication and a better overall ROI for the brand. There are multiple digital marketing channels available namely: It is important for a firm to reach out to consumers and create a two-way communication model, as digital marketing allows consumers to give back feedback to the firm on a community-based site or straight directly to the firm via email. Firms should seek this long-term communication relationship by using multiple forms of channels and using promotional strategies related to their target consumer as well as word-of-mouth marketing. Digital marketing used to rely primarily on self-regulation included in the ICC Code, which included rules that apply to marketing communications using digital interactive media. However, self-regulation has proved largely ineffective, leading to the consolidation of market power in a few firms, including Google , which has been determined to hold monopolies in search marketing and digital advertising. While self-regulation codes still exist, government regulation is increasing in multiple jurisdictions, including California's legislation on targeting advertising online. In Europe, digital marketing is regulated through multiple codes, of which the most important is the Digital Services Act , which entered into force on 17 February, 2024. Other regulations focus on user privacy and data management such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Digital marketing planning is a term used in marketing management. It describes the first stage of forming a digital marketing strategy for the wider digital marketing system . The difference between digital and traditional marketing planning is that it uses digitally based communication tools and technology such as Social, Web, Mobile, Scannable Surface. Nevertheless, both are aligned with the vision, the mission of the company and the overarching business strategy. Dr. Dave Chaffey, an author on marketing topics, has suggested that successful digital marketing strategies have do digital marketing planning (DMP), which is a three-stage approach: Opportunity, Strategy, and Action. This generic strategic approach often has phases of situation review, goal setting, strategy formulation, resource allocation and monitoring. To create an effective DMP, a business first needs to review the marketplace and set "SMART" (Specific, Measurable, Actionable, Relevant, and Time-Bound) objectives. They can set SMART objectives by reviewing the current benchmarks and key performance indicators (KPIs) of the company and competitors. It is pertinent that the analytics used for the KPIs be customized to the type, objectives, mission, and vision of the company. Companies can scan for marketing and sales opportunities by reviewing their own outreach as well as influencer outreach. This means they have competitive advantage because they are able to analyse their co-marketers influence and brand associations. To seize the opportunity, the firm should summarize its current customers' personas and purchase journey from this they are able to deduce their digital marketing capability. A planned digital strategy is where a company expresses clearly what they are offering customers online e.g., brand positioning. The marketing mix is a framework which can be used to facilitate this. The third and final stage requires the firm to set a budget and management systems. These must be measurable touchpoints, such as the audience reached across all digital platforms. Furthermore, marketers must ensure the budget and management systems are integrating the paid, owned, and earned media of the company. The Action and final stage of planning also requires the company to set in place measurable content creation e.g. oral, visual or written online media. One way marketers can reach out to consumers and understand their thought process is through what is called an empathy map. An empathy map is a four-step process. The first step is through asking questions that the consumer would be thinking in their demographic. The second step is to describe the feelings that the consumer may be having. The third step is to think about what the consumer would say in their situation. The final step is to imagine what the consumer will try to do based on the other three steps. This map is so marketing teams can put themselves in their target demographics shoes. Web Analytics are also a very important way to understand consumers. They show the habits that people have online for each website. One particular form of these analytics is predictive analytics which helps marketers figure out what route consumers are on. This uses the information gathered from other analytics and then creates different predictions of what people will do so that companies can strategize on what to do next, according to the people's trends. The "sharing economy" refers to an economic pattern that aims to obtain a resource that is not fully used. Nowadays, the sharing economy has had an unimagined effect on many traditional elements including labor, industry, and distribution system. This effect is not negligible that some industries are obviously under threat. The sharing economy is influencing the traditional marketing channels by changing the nature of some specific concept including ownership, assets, and recruitment. Digital marketing channels and traditional marketing channels are similar in function that the value of the product or service is passed from the original producer to the end user by a kind of supply chain. Digital Marketing channels, however, consist of internet systems that create, promote, and deliver products or services from producer to consumer through digital networks. Increasing changes to marketing channels has been a significant contributor to the expansion and growth of the sharing economy. Such changes to marketing channels has prompted unprecedented and historic growth. In addition to this typical approach, the built-in control, efficiency and low cost of digital marketing channels is an essential features in the application of sharing economy. Digital marketing channels within the sharing economy are typically divided into three domains including, e-mail, social media, and search engine marketing or SEM. Other emerging digital marketing channels, particularly branded mobile apps, have excelled in the sharing economy. Branded mobile apps are created specifically to initiate engagement between customers and the company. This engagement is typically facilitated through entertainment, information, or market transaction.